First  occupied  by the French  in 1764 , the islands  were quickly  ceded  to Spain , which then  ruled  the adjacent  territory  in Latin_America .
However , the Spanish  only  established  themselves on  West Falkland  and, in 1765  the British  took_control  of the eastern  island .
By 1816 , both  powers  had removed  their respective  garrisons  and the Falkland_Islands  had  no  permanent  inhabitants .
A vessel  from newly  independent  Argentina  was sent  in 1820  to establish  a permanent  settlement  but was driven_out_ by a British  expedition  in 1832 .
The British  declared  full  sovereignty  over the Falkland_Islands  the following  year .
Argentina  refused  to recognize  British  sovereignty  and has maintained  a consistent  claim  to sovereignty  ever  since.
This claim  was pursued  periodically  through diplomatic  channels  until 1982 , when an Argentine  force  overran  the British  garrison  and established  a military  base  on 'Islas Malvinas', a name  derived  from the original  French  settlers , who named  the islands  after their home  port  of St Malo.
After various  attempts  at negotiation  and mediation  had failed , a British  task_force , which had been dispatched  at the start  of the crisis , was ordered  to continue  its journey  and engage  the  Argentinian .
Argentina  formally  surrendered  on 14  June , 10  weeks  after the invasion .
In the subsequent  contact  between the two  governments , it has become  apparent  that the issue  of sovereignty  is  a stumbling_block  and that the Falkland_Islands ' issue  will remain  a key  aspect  of Argentine  foreign_policy  in the foreseeable  future .
The Falkland_Islands  are  home  to a plethora  of marine  life , from five  different  species  of penguins  to whales  and sea_birds  that hover  around Stanley Harbour .
Nineteenth century  shipwrecks  await  exploration , while battlefields  in the 1982  conflict  such as Goose Green and Pebble Island  have become  tourist  attractions .  French Guiana  was discovered  by the Spanish  in 1496 , who established  a few  settlements  in 1503  and 1504 .
The French  first  moved_in  a century  later .
Numerous  changes  in control  followed  over the next  200  years , alternating  between France , Britain , the Netherlands  and Portugal , until the territory  was finally  confirmed  as French  in 1817 .
The colony  enjoyed  a brief  period  of prosperity  in the 1850 s when gold  was discovered , but afterwards  went  into a decline  from which it has never  fully  recovered .
 French Guiana  was finally  given  French  Overseas  Department  status  in 1946 , under which the territory  effectively  became  an integral  part  of the French  nation .
However , the territory  was largely  neglected  by Paris  and continued  to deteriorate  until civil  unrest  broke_out  in the 1970 s.
After a security  crackdown , the central government  promised  various  improvements .
These failed  to materialize  until the Mitterrand presidency , under which a series  of reforms  was introduced  in 1982 83 .
Some  decentralization  also  took_place : local  affairs  are now  dealt  with by the Regional  Council .
 French Guiana  has  the benefit  of an ideal  geographical  situation , set  between the Caribbean  and the Amazon .
 Little wonder , then , that its environment  is  so  rich .
Visitors  may have  the privilege  of observing  a great  many  
protected  species  in carefully  preserved  areas .
 French Guiana  is  also  home  to a colorful  blend  of different  cultural  backgrounds .
A native_land , a land  of exploration  and a land  of enslavement , the extraordinary  history  of  French Guiana  has left  its traces  in every  sector  of today  society  and can still  be sensed  in a number  of almost  mythical  places : Iles du Salut, which include  the infamous  Devil's Island  where political_prisoners  were held , Mount  Favard, the SaintLaurent du Maroni  transportation camp  and the Iracoubo Church .
 French Guiana  is  also  a land  of social  progress  and a symbol  of modernity  as is demonstrated  in Kourou, the main  French  Space  Centre .
From encounters  with authentic  cultures , to watching  the birth  of the leatherback_turtles , from life  as a convict  in a penal_colony  to travelling  by canoe  down majestic  rivers , from panning  for gold  to watching  toucans  fly  or following  the vapour  trail  of Ariane,  French Guiana  has  a lot  to offer .
When Columbus  reached  the northern  coast  of South_America  at the beginning  of the 16 th  century , the area  that is  now  Guyana  was inhabited  by two  distinct  groups , the Arawak  who lived  along the coast  and the Carib  who lived  in the interior .
The Spanish  were not  attracted  by the region , however , and it was  the Dutch  who first  established  a European  presence  around  1616 .
At the heart  of it was  the trading_post  at the mouth  of the Essequibo River , which was controlled , along  with other  posts established  later  on, by the Dutch  West India Company .
The Dutch  remained  in undisputed  control  until the end  of the 18 th  century  when the outbreak  of the Napoleonic_Wars  brought  a period  of turmoil  during which the territory  changed  hands  several  times  between the Dutch , British  and French .
The British  ultimately  prevailed  following  the defeat  of Napoleon  in 1815 .
The territory  was then  declared  the colony  of British_Guiana , a status  which it retained  until independence  in 1996 .
After the abolition  of slavery  in 1834 , the plantation  owners  imported  laborers  from India .
Indians  now  form  the largest  racial  group , with most living  in the agricultural  areas , particularly  around Demerara .
Other  immigrants  were  Americans , Europeans  (Portuguese , British  and Dutch ) and Chinese .
Guyana  attractions  range  from the 19 th century  stilted wooden  houses  of its capital , Georgetown , to the awesome  natural  splendors  of the towering  Kaieteur Falls  along the Potaro River , five  times  the height  of Niagara .
The country  mixture  of rainforests , beaches , savannah  and rivers  draws  adventure  tourists  hoping  to camp , trek , fish  or perhaps  be  lucky  enough  to spot  a jaguar .
Paraguay  is  a little_known  landlocked  country , which has found  itself somewhat  isolated  from even  its neighbors  in the past  by  geography  and politics .
Since 1811 , when it became  independent , Paraguay  has been governed  mainly  by dictatorships  and has endured  a number  of costly  wars  against neighboring  countries .
However , Paraguay  has taken  a number  of steps  to overcome  its political , economic  and geographic  situation  and is building  a more  welcoming  image .
The country  can boast  many  attractions : grassy  plains  and an untamed  wilderness  of marshes , lagoons , dense  forests , jungles , national_parks , Jesuit  missions  and the Chaco, one of South_America  great  wilderness  areas .
The country  will particularly  appeal  to travelers  who have already  been  to larger , more  varied  South_American  destinations , but who are  now  ready  to experience  the more  subtle attractions  of the continent  such as learning  about the Guarani  Indians , watching  Nanduti lace  being made  or seeing  a jaguar  or alligator .
In_addition , Paraguay  boasts  breathtaking  waterfalls  where the borders  of Brazil , Paraguay , and Argentina  come together.
For all  these reasons , Paraguay  is  definitely  a country  worth  discovering .
Perhaps  no  other  country  has  more to offer  the visitor  than Peru : panoramic mountain_ranges , vast  deserts , beautiful  beaches  and tropical  jungle .
All  this is combined  with rich  historical  and archaeological  past  and enduring  indigenous  cultures .
The indigenous  Inca  civilization  of what is  now  Peru  was conquered  by Spain  in the early  16 th  century .
Spain  ruled  the country  until the early  19 th  century .
The wars  of independence , which expelled  the Spanish  from virtually  the entire  South_American  continent , reached  Peru  in the early  1820 s.
After the 1821  declaration  of independence , Peru  was challenged  by the royalists .
The new  government  appealed  to the revolutionary  leader , Simon_Bolivar , for assistance , which proceeded  to defeat  the royalists  at the Battle  of Ayacucho in December  1824 , after which he became  head_of_state .
Relations  between Peru  and its neighbors  were  difficult  in the early  years  of independence .
There were  border  disputes  with Brazil  and Ecuador , and especially  with Chile .
The War  of the Pacific broke_out  between Peru  and Chile  in 1879 , with a complete  victory  for Chile  and the loss  to Peru  of some  southern  territories .
Internal  problems  dominated  the agenda  for the next  30  years , as a series  of governments  struggled  to keep  the economy , which was  almost  completely  destroyed  as a result  of the Pacific War , from disintegrating .
The first  of Peru  many  military  coups  was  in 1914 .
The junta  lasted  five  years , before giving_way  to the civilian  government  of Augusto Leguia.
His tenure  ended  with another  military  takeover .
While the military  has always  been  a powerful  force  in Peruvian  politics , its principal  opponent  and the country  largest  political_party  for much of the 20 th  century  was  the Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Americana (APRA), founded  by Dr Victor Raul Haya de la Torre in 1924 , as a continentwide  anti imperialist  movement .
Although increasingly  moderate  and Peruvian centered  in its appeal , APRA has nevertheless  been  illegal  for much of its history .
Politics  has also  persistently  been dogged  by alleged  – and sometimes  proven  – corruption .
The 'war  on drugs ' has long  dominated  relations  between Peru  and the USA .
Border  disputes  have also  arisen ; the most  serious  of these was  with Ecuador  over access  to the  Amazonian  river  system  and control  of the potentially  mineral rich  Condor mountain_range .
In early  1995 , fullscale  fighting  broke_out  after talks  broke  down, continuing  intermittently  until a settlement  was reached  in 1999 .
Just  as complex  is  Peru  topography : divided  into the three  main  geographical  zones  of costa (coast ); sierra  (mountains ); and selva  (rainforest ).
Such  diverse  landscape  generates  diverse  pleasures ; Peru  successfully  offers  history , archaeology , sports , beaches , mountains , medicinal  springs , nature , fantastic  landscapes , friendly  people  and mesmeric  music .
Ancient  archaeological  remains  and Nazca Lines augment  Peru  sense  of mystery , of possessing  an  awesomeness  of both  humankind  and nature .
Surinam  is bordered  by the Atlantic_Ocean , the Marowijne River ,  French Guiana  and Brazil .
By the time the Spanish  arrived  in the late  15 th  century , the Surinen (the original  inhabitants  of Surinam ) had been driven_out  by other  Amerindian  groups .
Fierce  resistance  to colonization  deterred  most wouldbe  occupiers  from Europe , although the territory  formally  changed_hands  many  times  between the Dutch , English  and French , before finally  being  confirmed  as a Dutch  possession  by the terms  of the 1815  Treaty  of Vienna.
At this time , the majority  of the population  was  slaves , working  on the plantations .
Despite the abolition  of slavery  in 1863 , conditions  changed  very  little  until the early  20 th  century  and the discovery  of large  bauxite  deposits , which brought_about  a major  change  in the economic   and consequently , political   complexion  of the country .
In 1954 , Surinam , with the Netherlands_Antilles , became  an autonomous  region  within the Kingdom_of_The_Netherlands .
Full  independence  was achieved  in 1975 .
While the 17 th century  capital , Paramaribo , with its attractive  colonial  architecture , is  a good  starting_point  for any  visitor , Surinam  main  attraction  is  its tropical  rainforest , which covers  nearly  80  per_cent  of the country  and is  home  to a huge  variety  of wildlife . 
Known_as  the 'Oriental  Republic ' because of its location  on the eastern  bank  of the Rio_de_la_Plata , Uruguay  is  one of the smallest  of the South_American  republics .
 :85 : Parts  of the territory  which is  now  Uruguay  were settled  by the Spanish  in the 1620 s and the Portuguese  in the 1680 s; as a result , Uruguay  became  a major  bone_of_contention  between these rival  European  powers .
The Spanish  prevailed  in the early  18 th  century , after the establishment  of a settlement  at San Felipe de Montevideo (which eventually  became  the Uruguayan  capital ) in 1726 .
The formal  creation  of the Uruguayan  state  took_place  in 1828 .
Throughout much of this early  19 th century  period , the future  Uruguay  was occupied  by Portuguese  troops  from neighboring  Brazil ; interventions  – military  and otherwise  – by its larger  neighboring  powers  were  to become  a recurrent  feature  of Uruguay  political  history .
The conjunction  between internal  and external  forces  became  apparent  during the Great War of 1843 52 , which centered  on the siege  of Montevideo , then  under Colorado  control , by Blanco forces .
The war , which was  eventually  won  by the Colorados , established  the pattern  whereby Argentina  and Brazil  became  the guarantors  of Uruguayan  independence , with the intervention  of global  powers  on occasion – Britain  and France  in the 19 th  century , the USA  in the 20 th  century .
Today , the country  economic  health still  relies  heavily  on its two  large  neighbors  and main  trading  partners .
Although the tourism  industry  only  brings_in  under  US $1  billion  annually , Uruguay  is drawing  increasingly  more  visitors  each  year , and for good  reasons .
The country  enjoys  500 km  (300  miles ) of fine  sandy  beaches  on the Atlantic  and the Rio_de_la_Plata , woods , hills , hot_springs , hotels , casinos , art  festivals  and numerous  opportunities  for sport  and entertainment .
Montevideo , the capital , contains  
more_than  half  of Uruguay  population .
Located  on the River  Plate, which has been  one of the essential  elements  for the development  of the territory , Montevideo  is  also  the country  natural  trading  centre .
It is  a delight  for lovers  of culture .
Museums , theatres , exhibitions , shows , popular  feasts .
There is  an intense  agenda  all  year_round  and the city  itself is  a collection  of art  and history .
Originally  inhabited  by Carib  and Arawak  Indians , Venezuela  was claimed  as a Spanish  territory  by Christopher_Columbus  in 1498 .
Spanish  rule  was administered  from a distance , leaving  the various  regions  to develop  separately  from the capital , Caracas , which was founded  by Diego de Losada in 1567 .
In the 18 th  century , an attempt  to inject  a measure  of unification  by the Spanish  was met  with widespread  resistance  and uprisings  led  by Simón Bolívar (after whom the currency  is  named ).
In 1830 , Venezuela  became  a sovereign  state , led  by José Paéz.
Today  politics  is  dominated  by President  Hugo Chávez, the leader  of a coup  attempt  in 1992 , who formed  his own  party  and, drawing  on the support  of millions  of disaffected  poor_people , won  the 1998  presidential  election .
Despite attempts  by the opposition  to remove  him, Chávez's position  remains  secure  for now .
In the 2005  parliamentary  elections , his party  won  a majority  of  seats  in the National  Assembly .
Venezuela  offers  a myriad  of landscapes  and experiences   tropical  beaches , immense  plains , enormous  rivers , forests , jungle , waterfalls  and great  mountains .
The clear , warm  waters  of its Caribbean  coastline  are  ideal  for snorkeling  and diving , while numerous  islands  off the coast  invite  visitors  to explore .
The tropical  lowlands  hide  a huge  array  of wildlife , lush  vegetation  and dramatic  waterfalls , yet within the same  country  lie  high  Andean  peaks , providing  a challenge  to trekkers  and mountaineers .
