A festival  of art , craft , culture  and celebrations , organized  by  U.P.  Tourism ,  is held  every  year  between the 18 th  27 th  February .
 :2 : Uttar_Pradesh  is  a land  of cultural  and geographical  diversity , which is  blessed  with an innumerable  perennial  rivers , dense  forests , and fertile  soil .
 :3 : The Taj_Mahal  is the one_and_only  one of its kind  across the world .
 :4 :  Taj  is one of the wonders  of the world .
 :5 : For a breathtaking  beautiful  view  of the 
Taj_Mahal , see  it by moonlight .
 :7 : An estimated  20 ,000  people  worked  to complete  the  Taj , an enchanting  mausoleum , on the banks  of the Yamuna.
 :8 : With an estimated  crowd  of 3  million  tourists  per year  the  Taj  attracts  about  15000  visitors  per day .
 :9 : One can imagine  the crowd ! 
So  far  away  from the maddening  crowd , that too  with a free   vista  for viewing  the  Taj  is  on the sandy  bank  of the river  Yamuna at the Mehtab Bagh gardens .
 :10 :  :10 : The Mehtab Bagh's forestry  plantations  and agricultural  fields  provide  a green  forecourt  to the Taj_Mahal  and its reflection  in Yamuna.
 :11 : The great  Moghul  Emperor  Akbar commissioned  the construction  of the Agra Fort  in 1565  A.D .
 :12 : In Agra  there are  a number  of exquisite  buildings  like Moti Masjid   a white  marble  mosque  akin  to a perfect  pearl ; DiwaniAm, DiwaniKhaas, Musamman Burj  where Shah_Jahan  died  in 1666  A.D.  Jahangir's Palace , Khaas Mahal and Shish Mahal.
 :13 : Allahabad is  among the largest  cities  in Uttar_Pradesh .
 :14 : Brahma  also  referred  to Allahabad as `Tirth Raj’ or the `king  of all  pilgrimage  centres ’.
 :15 : Recorded  evidence  also  exists  in the revered  scriptures  – the Vedas  and the grand  epics , the Ramayana  and the Mahabharata , as also  in the Puranas  – of this holy  place  Allahabad, formerly  called  Prayag.
 :16 : Allahabad stands  at the confluence  of two  of India  holiest  rivers , the  Ganga  and the Yamuna.
 :17 : Sangam, as the confluence  is called , is  the venue  of many  sacred  fairs and rituals , and attracts  thousands  of pilgrims  throughout the year .
 :18 : A third  mythical  Saraswati river , believed  to flow  underground  towards the Sangam, gives  the confluence  its other  name  'Triveni'.
 :19 : Emperor  Akbar founded  this city  in 1575  and called  it by the name  of `Illahabas’, which has now  become  modern  Allahabad.
 :20 : The monarch  realized  its strategic  importance  as a waterway  landmark  in North  India  and also  built  a magnificent  fort  on the banks  of the holy  Sangam.
 :21 : The chequered history  of Allahabad with its religious , cultural  and historical  ethos  also  gave_rise  to several  renowned  scholars , poets , writers , thinkers , statesmen  and leaders .
 :22 : The city  being  an important  cantonment  during the British  Raj  has  some beautiful  remnants  of colonial  architecture .
 :23 : Boats  to the Sangam, used  by pilgrims  and tourists  alike , can be rented  at the ghat  immediately  east  of the fort .
 :24 : The sacred  Sangam is  the confluence  of three  of the holiest  rivers  in Hindu  mythology  –  Ganga , Yamuna and the mythical  Saraswati.
 :25 : At the Sangam, the waters  of the Ganges  and the Yamuna can be distinctly  seen  to merge  into one .
 :26 : The holy  Sangam is  the site  for Annual  Magha  Mela/ Ardh Kumbh/ Kumbh Mela.
 :27 : Hindus  traditionally  regard  river  confluences  as auspicious  places , more so the Sangam at Allahabad, where the Yamuna and the Ganges  meet  the River  of Enlightenment , the mythical  Saraswati.
 :28 : The Maha Kumbh Mela  the "Great " Kumbh Mela  is  the largest  religious  fair in India .
 :29 : Allahabad's majestic  fort  has  three  magnificent  galleries  flanked  by high  towers .
 :30 : Visitors  are allowed  to see  the Ashokan Pillar  and Saraswati Kup, a well , said  to be  the source  of the Saraswati river  and Jodhabai Palace .
 :31 : The gigantic  Ashoka pillar , of polished  sandstone  stands  10 .6  meters  high , dating_back  to 232  B.C .
 :32 : The Ashoka pillar  has  several  edicts  and a Persian  inscription  of Emperor  Jahangir is scripted  on it.
 :33 : Visitors  need  permission  to visit  the Fort , Patalpuri Temple , Ashoka Pillar  and AkshayaVat from Commandant , Ordinance Depot , and Fort .
Ayodhya is  situated  on the right  bank  of the river  Ghagra or Saryu, as it is  called  within sacred  precincts.
 :35 :  Ayodhya is  closely  associated  with  Lord  Rama , the seventh  incarnation  of  Lord  Vishnu .
 :36 : Ayodhya during ancient  times  was  known_as  Kaushaldesa.
 :37 : Skand and some other  Puranas  rank  Ayodhya as one of the seven  most  sacred  cities  of India .
 :38 : Ayodhya is  also  famous  for its close  association  with the epic  Ramayana .
 :39 : Ayodhya is  a city  of immense  antiquity  full  of historical  significance  and sacred  temples .
 :40 : The Atharva_veda  described  Ayodhya as `a city  built  by Gods  and being  prosperous  as paradise  itself’.
 :41 : Ayodhya is  preeminently  a city  of temples  yet , all  places_of_worship  here  are  not  only  of Hindu  religion .
 :42 : At Ayodhya several  religions  have grown  and prospered  simultaneously  and also  at different  periods_of_time  in the past .
 :43 : Remnants  of Hinduism , Buddhism , Jainism  and Islam  can still  be found  in Ayodhya.
 :44 : A massive  structure  in the shape  of a four   sided  fort  with circular  bastions  at each  corner  houses  a temple  of Hanuman  and is  the most  popular  shrine  in Ayodhya.
 :45 : The chief  place_of_worship  in Ayodhya is  the site  of the ancient  citadel  of Ramkot which stands  on an elevated  ground  in the western  part  of the city .
 :46 : Although visited  by pilgrims  throughout the year , this sacred  Ramkot place  attracts  devotees  from all_over  India  and  abroad , on `Ram Navami’, the day  of  Lord's  birth , which is celebrated  with great  pomp  and show , in the Hindu  month  of Caitra  (March April ).
 :47 : The temple  of Nageshwarnath is said  to have been established  by Kush, the son  of Rama .
 :48 : The quiet  and beautiful  township  of Bithoor is  situated  on the Kannauj Road , 27  km  from Kanpur.
 :49 : Situated  on the banks  of the  Ganga , Bithoor is  of considerable  historical  and religious  importance .
 :50 : The palace  of Nana Sahib was reduced  to rubble  by the British  in 1857  and the only  traces  remaining  of it are  some  large  well_heads  and broken  palace  walls .
 :51 : A panoramic  view  of Bithoor can be enjoyed  from  Valmiki Ashram .
 :52 : The foundation_stone  of red  sandstone  ghat  was laid  by Tikait Rai, a minister  of Awadh State .
 :53 : Mathura, a quiet  town  on the River  Yamuna was transformed  into a place  of faith  after  Lord  Krishna  was  born  here .
 :54 : Vrindavan, a village   once  noted  for its fragrant  groves , is  where  Lord  Krishna  spent  an eventful  youth .
 :55 : Brajbhoomi  the land  where  Lord  Krishna  was  born  and spent  his youth .
 :56 : The city  of Mathura, in Uttar_Pradesh , the nucleus  of Brajbhoomi, is  located  at a distance  of 145  km  south_east  of Delhi  and 58  km  northwest  of Agra .
 :57 : Gokul, was  the village  of the gopas ( cowherds ) in Braj. 
It was  here  that he grew  to manhood , in the tender  care  of his foster_parents  Nand and Yashoda in the happy  company  of the  cowherds .
 :59 :  :58 : A long  line  of picturesque  ghats   with their steps  leading  to the water  edge , arched  gateways  and temple  spires  extending  along the right  bank  of the River  Yamuna, emphasises  the sacred  character  of the town  of Mathura.
 :59 : The birth_place  of  Lord  Krishna , "the best  known , best  loved  and most  complex  of  Lord  Vishnu  manifestations "  Mathura is  today  an important  place  of pilgrimage .
 :60 : Today , Mathura is  a city  of temples  and shrines  abustle with the thousands  of devotees  who come  to visit  the city  of  Lord  Krishna .
 :61 : Another  beautiful  shrine , the Gita Mandir, located  on the Mathura Vrindavan Road  has  a fine  image  of  Shri Krishna  in its sanctum .
 :62 : The most  popular  shrine  at Mathura is  the Dwarikadhish Temple  to the north  of the town , dedicated  to  Shri Krishna .
 :63 : There are  about  25  ghats  in Mathura today , of which the most  important  is  the Vishram Ghat   where according  to legend ,  Shri Krishna  took  his rest  after killing  Kansa.
 :64 : The Vishram Ghat  is lined  with elegant  temples  and some of Mathura's most  important  shrines  are found  here   the Mukut Temple , RadhaDamodar, Murli Manohar, Neelkantheshwar, YamunaKrishna, Langali Hanuman and Narasimha temples .
 :65 : No  pilgrimage  to Mathura is  complete  without a visit  to its kunds.
 :66 : The Government  Museum , Mathura, originally  founded  by F.S. Growse in 1874 , is  today  one of the leading  centres  for research , study  and the preservation  of Mathura's splendid  heritage  of art .
 :67 : The most  celebrated  of  Shri Krishna's  abode , Gokul lies  to the west  of Sadabad, 1 .6  km  from Mahavan and 15  km  southeast  of Mathura.
 :68 : Gokul attained  importance  during the time  of Vallabhacharya (1479 1531 ) when it became  a major  centre  of the Bhakti  cult .
 :69 : Gokul attained  importance  during the time  of Vallabhacharya (1479 1531 ) when it became  a major  centre  of the Bhakti  cult .
 :70 : It was  in Gokul that  Lord  Krishna  was brought_up  in secrecy  by Yashoda, in the pastoral  beauty  of this village  on the banks  of the Yamuna.
 :71 : Important  sites  worth  visiting  in Gokul include  the Gokulnath Temple , Raja Thakur Temple , Gopal Lalji Temple  and the Morwala Temple .
 :72 : Celebrated  in ballads  and the scriptures  for its natural  beauty  and closely  associated  with the epic  Ramayana , Chitrakoot or "the hill  of many  wonders " is  a hallowed  centre  of pilgrimage .
 :73 : The holy  town  Chitrakoot is  set  in sylvan  surroundings  on the banks  of the River  Mandakini, also  known_as  the Payaswaini river .
 :74 : The Bharat Milap Temple  is  located  in Kamadgiri.
 :75 : Sphatik Shila is believed  to be  the place  where  Lord  Rama  and Sita  feasted  their eyes  on the beauty  of Chitrakoot.
 :76 : On the banks  of the River  Mandakini, and centre  of ritual  activity , this Ram ghat  is  the most  frequented  in Chitrakoot.
 :77 : 123  km  from Jhansi, Deogarh is  situated  on the right  bank  of the Betwa river , at the western  end  of the Lalitpur range  of hills .
 :78 : Deogarh is  of great  antiquarian ,  epigraphical  and archaeological  importance  and has been  integral  to the history  of the Guptas, the GurjaraPratiharas, and the Gondas, the Muslim  rulers  of Delhi , the Marathas  and the British .
 :79 : Dashavatar Temple  dedicated  to  Lord  Vishnu  is  the earliest  known  Panchyatan temple  in north  India .
 :80 : These 31  Jain  temples  are  somewhat  later  in origin  that the Vishnu  temple , but are  no  less  remarkable .
 :81 : Jain  temples  are  situated  inside the fort  of Kanali on the hills  overlooking  the Betwa.
 :82 : Situated  on the  IndoNepal  border  in district  LakhimpurKheri of Uttar_Pradesh , the Dudhwa Tiger  Reserve  with an area  of 614   sq. Km .
 :83 : Dudhwa Tiger  Reserve  is  one of the finest  of the few  remaining  examples  of the exceedingly  diverse  and productive  terai ecosystems .
 :84 : Dudhwa Tiger  Reserve  is  home  to a large  number  of rare  and endangered  species  which includes  tiger , leopard ,  swamp deer ,  Hispid hare ,  Bengal Florican , etc. .
 :85 : The Kishanpur Sanctuary  located  about  30  km  from Dudhwa, is  the other  constituent  of the reserve .
 :86 : Chini Ka Rauza was constructed  by Afjal Khan  a high  official  in the court  of Shah_Jahan , decorated  by glazed  tiles  on the facade , the structure  clearly  depicts  the Persian  influence  in architecture .
 :87 : Allahabad today  is  an important  city  where history , culture  and religion  create  a confluence  much  like the sacred  rivers  that cares  this God graced  land .
 :88 : Allahabad Fort : built  by emperor  Akbar in 1583  A.D. , the fort  stands  on the banks  of the Yamuna near the confluence  site .
 :89 : The immortal  Akshaya Vat tree  within the Patalauri temple , has found  mention  in the description  of several  ancient  scriptures ,  writers  and historians .
 :90 : Kanak Bhawan has  images  of Sri Rama  and Sita  wearing  gold  crowns . 
It is  also  known_as  SonekeGhar.
 :92 :  :91 : Treta ke Thakur temple  stands  at the place  Rama  is said  to have performed  the Ashvamedha Yajnya.
 :92 : Rishabhadeo Jain  Temple , Brahma Kund, Amawan Temple , Tulsi Chaura, Laxman Quila, Angad Tila, Shri Rama Janaki Birla Temple , Tulsi Smarak Bhawan, Ram ki Paidi, Kaleramji ka Mandir, Datuvan Kund, Janki Mahal, Gurudwara Brahma Kund, Ram Katha Museum , Valmiki Ramayan Bhawan, are  places  of interest  in Ayodhya.
 :93 : The historic  town  of Bithoor, once  famous  by the name  of ‘Bavan Ghaton ki Nagri’, (city  of 52  ghats ) is today  left  with only  29  ghats .
 :94 : Valmiki Ashram  is  located  at a height  and  is  accessible  by a flight_of_stairs  known_as  the “stairway  to heaven ”.
 :95 : Brahmavart Ghat  is considered  the holiest  ghat  of Bithoor.
 :96 : Dhruva teela: this marks  the place  where the child  Dhruva meditated  single_mindedly  as he stood  on one  leg .
 :97 : The land of Braj starts  from Kotban near Hodel about  95  km  from Delhi  and ends  at Runakta which is  known  specially  for its association  with the great  poet  Surdas, an ardent  Krishna  devotee .
 :98 : The Brij has  a number  of Shaivite temples  as_well . 
The chief  among them being  the Bhuteshwar Mahadev Temple  to the west  of the town , the Gokarneshwar Temple  in the north , the Rangeshwar Mahadev Temple  to the south  and the Pipaleshwar Mahadev Temple  to the east .
 :100 :  :99 : Kamadgiri is  a forested  hill  of prime  religious  significance ; this is believed  to be  the original  Chitrakoot.
 :100 : Hanuman Dhara is  located  on a steep  hillside ; it is  approachable  by a flight  of 360  steps .
 :101 : Janki Kund is  an unusual  cave  over the Mandakini, said  to be  the place  where Sita  bathed .
