The period  between the decline  of the Moghul  dynasty  and the emergence  of the British  imperial  rule , Polo  almost  vanished  from the mainland  of India .
Fortunately  for the world , the game  Polo  survived  in a few  remote  mountainous  enclaves  of the subcontinent , notably  Gilgit, Chitral, Ladakh and Manipur .
It is  to the survival  of the Polo  game  in the remote  northeastern  state  of Manipur , that the world  owes  the genesis  of modern  polo , as it is universally  played  today .
In India , the popularity  of polo  has waned  and risen  many  times .
Today , polo  is not  just  restricted  to the royalty  and the Indian  Army , many  companies  and firms  too  patronize  the sport .
Polo  facilities  are  on the rise  and polo  holidays  in India  too  are  in vogue .
Nestled  amongst the dense  forest  on the RishikeshBadrinath highway  at an altitude  of 380  m , at Kaudiyala, the mighty  waters  of  Ganga  are  ideal  for white_water  rafting : there is  also  ample  opportunity  to view  wildlife  in its natural  habitat .
Natural  walks  along the river  are  a real  treat  and for adventure  lovers  rock_climbing  can be arranged .
GMVN has developed  a water_sports  resort  at Asan  barrage .
14  kms  from Asan  barrage  is  Dakpathar, an aquatic  complex  with a swimming_pool , located  at the foothills  of Shivalik hills  and on the bank  of river  Yamuna.
In the beautiful  "lake  district " of Nainital, facilities  of boating  through yachts ,  paddle boats  and traditional  rowing_boats  are  available .
The Nanital boathouse  club  exclusively  holds  the management  of yachting  in Nainital.
In Nainital district , Sat Tal, Bhim Tal, and Naukuchiyatal also  have  water_sport  & boating  facilities .
In district  Udhamsingh Nagar of  U.P.  hills  is  a place  known_as  Nanaksagar.
The place  being  nearer  to Nainital, Almora, Pithoragarh, etc.  can attract  a large  number  of water_sports  loving  tourists  also .
The nearest  railhead  is  15  kms  away  from Khatima; the distance  from Naintal is 119  kms ; the  nearest  airstrip  is  in Pantnagar.
The Indian  subcontinent  perhaps  has  the largest  network  of rivers  in the world .
The northern  rivers , with their origins  in the lofty  Himalayas  provide  an exciting  adventure  for the 
white_water  enthusiasts .
Of all  the rivers ,  Ganga  is  the most  beautiful  river .
The mighty  Ganges  originates  from Gaumukh in Garhwal region  of the Himalayas .
 Ganga  is  a superb  river  for inflatable  rafts .
In Kumaon, the Kail Ganga (Sharda) flows  down  from the Nepal  border  through Kumaon hills .
The Kail and Gori rivers  meet  at Jauljibi where the water  volume  increases .
The icy  heights  of the Himalayas  are  the source  of some of India  mighty  rivers .
An intricate  network  of thundering  mountain  rivers , flowing  through an amazing  landscape  of thrilling  gorges , forests , and remote  villages , the Garhwal and Kumaon hills , in the state  of Uttarakhand, provide  ideal  settings  for some  dramatic  water  adventure .
Rock_climbing  is  largely  balance  and not  strength .
Balance  also  determines  the value  of strength  by how much energy  you spend  actually  climbing : sheer  rock  faces , ideal  for 
rock_climbing , can be found  in many  areas .
The Aravali hills  have  good  climbing  faces  at Dumdama, Dhauj and Nuh, all situated  near Delhi .
The Western   Ghats  has  Mumbra and Dudha beyond Pune.
Himachal Pradesh offers  the Manali Valley , Manikaran and the Rohtang Pass .
Rajasthan has  Mount  Abu and Sariska, which have  gentler  rocks .
In Karnataka  there are  the Chamundi Hills .
High_altitude  climbers  will enjoy  the rock  faces  at Sonmarg in  Kashmir  and Gangotri in Garhwal, Uttarakhand.
Certain  climbs  can often  prove  grueling  and tough , but the  magic  of the beautiful  landscape , the cool  weather  and pure  air  keeps  the climber  spirit  up .
The highest  grade  climbed  is  currently  32 ; serious  climbing  starts  around  10 , beginners  normally  do  the early  tens  and then  move  upwards .
Rock_climbing  can become  complex  because it involves  the interplay  of many  elements   you, your gear , your skill  and technique .
Monsoons  should be avoided . 
Climbing  is  relatively  safe , but that shouldn't stop  all  climbers  from taking  precautions .
 :41 : Climbers  are  not  oblivious  to heights .
As a climber , you cannot afford  to suffer  from vertigo  or a lapse  of judgment .
Special  equipment  such as ropes  is often  used  to protect  climbers  from falls .
Indoor  climbing  gyms  help  in developing  many  skills  in outdoor  climbing  especially  rock_climbing .
Unfortunately , indoor  climbing  is not  found  in India  but in Western  countries .
A rock  portion  projecting  overhead  and having  an angle  of more_than  90  degrees  is  called  as Overhang .
A rock  portion  projecting  outwards  like a roof  at nearly  180  degrees  is  called  a Roof .
The 2  main  destinations  in India , which have  scuba_diving  activities , as well as courses  in the sport  are  the Andamans and Lakshadweep.
The Andamans have  some  fascinating  underwater  marine  life , varieties  of colorful  fishes , shipwrecks  and exotic  coral_reefs .
The coastal  water  surrounding  the islands  of Andamans and Lakshadweep is  the abode  of one of the richest  coral_reef  ecosystem  in the world .
Many of the islands  are surrounded  by fringing  reefs , often  several  hundred  meters  wide  and separated  from the shore  by a lagoon  of similar  width .
There are  also  steeply  sloping  reef  walls , and coral  pinnacles  or knolls .
Island Water Sports is  a private  water_sports  operator  at Port Blair providing  speed_boats ,  jet skis ,  tube rides , wake_board  rides ,  knee board  rides , etc. 
The Andaman Water_Sports  Complex  at Port Blair is  a unique  water_sports  centre  run  by The Directorate  of tourism . 
It offers  adventure  water_sports  like sailing , skiing , parasailing  (subject  to wind /weather  conditions ), water_scooters  and speedboats .
 :55 : The trekker  in the process , also , gets  an exposure  to the intriguing  socio_cultural  life  of the people  living  in the Chaudans, Byans, and Darma valleys .
Pithoragarh, also  called  'Miniature   Kashmir ', is  the base  for treks  to Jolinkong.
The route  to Simla pass  is  along a heavy  blanket  of snow , and from here , the beautiful  Chhota Kaikash peak  is  perennially  in view .
Auli offers  a panoramic  view  of Himalayan  peaks  like Nanda_Devi,  Kamet , Mana Parvat and Dunagiri 
Seemingly  only  a snowball  throw  away , Auli offers  perfect  skiing  conditions .
Seasonal  skiers  have  clean  stretches  of absolutely  virgin  slopes  to sport  on.
Winter  skiing  in Garhwal is now  being professionally  run  at the Auli slopes .
The Auli resort  has  snow  beaters , which beat  the snow  to keep  the slopes , fit  for skiing  at all  times .
A 500  m  long  ski_lift  carries  skiers  back  to the slope  top , thus  saving  them the trouble  and time  to bridge up wearing  long  skis .
Participants  are advised  to bring  heavy  woolen  clothing  like caps , socks , gloves , mufflers , pullovers , trousers , wind  proof  jackets , dark_glasses , gum /snow  boots  and a troche  for personal  use .
The large  slopes  of Garhwal and Kumaon covered  with seasonal  snow  become  an ideal  place  for skiing  in the winter  months .
One can feel  the adrenaline  level  rising  as one negotiates  the challenges  of the steep  gradients and traverses  unimaginable  distances .
Quite  truly , the thrill  of skiing  remains  unparalleled . 
As the elements  are defeated  exhilaration  swells_up . 
In skiing , the use  of only  the simplest  forms  of implements  adds  to the adventure .
 :68 : Because of their height  and spread , Garwhal and Kumaon, like other  sectors of the Himalayas , are  in a position  to offer  the thrills  of exploratory  long_distance  skiing  round the year .
 :69 : With their vast  open  spaces , above the snow_line , the Garhwal and Kumaon hills  of Uttaranchal, offer  a plethora  of ski  locales .
Due_to  their awesome  height  and spread , Garhwal and Kumaon, like other  areas  in the Himalayas , offer  the thrills  of exploratory  long_distance  skiing , round the year .
Poet  Ghyasuddin had designed  the verses  on the tombstone , while Ismail Khan Afridi of Turkey  was  the dome  maker .
Winter  skiing  in Garhwal is , now , professionally  conducted  at the Auli slopes .
The usual  season  is  late  December  to early  March , depending  on the snow  conditions .
For those fascinated  by the unexplored , the mountain_ranges  of India  offer  breathtaking , enthralling  trekking  routes .
In the vast  amphitheatre  of the Indian  Himalayas  and Karakorams , there are  limitless  possibilities  for trekking , mountaineering , skiing , and river  rafting .
Within this alluring  arena , the Garhwal and Kumaon regions , occupy  the central  place , with special  points  of interest  for the trekker .
Spectacular  views  apart , the Himalayan  foothills  are  just  ideal  for trekking , offering  energetic  outdoors  people  a different  and exciting  option  for a holiday .
The Garhwal and Kumaon regions  of Uttaranchal are  the most  popular  destinations  for trekkers , though Chamba and Manali in Himachal Pradesh, and Ladakh and Zanskar in  Jammu and Kashmir , have  interesting  trekking  routes  as_well .
Darjeeling and Sikkim  also  have  some  trekking  routes .
While trekking  as a sporting  activity  does not  require  prior  training  or practice , except that the trekker  should be  in good  physical  condition : there are  certain   dos and don'ts  which should be adhered  to.
Routes  should be carefully  chosen , as some  treks  may be  more  difficult , or may involve  high_altitude  trekking .
Ensure  that the pace  of the trek  is  not  too  rapid , since this could result  in exhaustion , and would in_any_case  not  be  enjoyable .
The adventure  season , which till recently , was confined  to the summer  months , now  covers  almost  the entire  year , including  winter .
This has been made  possible  by improved  equipment  and transportation , and the availability  of year_round  bookings  in areas , hitherto , considered  inaccessible .
Moreover , winter  treks  are  gaining  popularity  as a means  of 'getting_away ' to relatively  lower  altitudes .
Running  water  should be used  for washing , and washing  should be done  well  downstream  of campsites .
Allow  for time  to enjoy  the panoramic  and magnificent  sites  of the awesome  mountains , rivers , flora  and fauna .
Indian  nationals  need  no  permission  for trekking  in any area , outside the Inner  Line .
For routes  inside the Inner  Line , the local  District  Magistrate  permission , or that of the Central  Home  Ministry  is  necessary .
Treks  up to 4900  m  need  no  permission , and can be undertaken  on tourist  visas .
The trek  winds  along the river  Mandakini, through dense  forests , and across roaring  waterfalls .
The 6  km  trek  from Kedarnath to Vasukital (4135  m ) is  a continuous  ascent  along a goat  track , and offers  a wonderful  panoramic  view  of the Chaukhamba peaks .
The Himalayas  offer  you some of the toughest  and most  exciting  river runs in the world .
River  sports  in the rapids  are  the most  popular , throughout the summers  and can really  get  your adrenaline  pumping .
The innumerable  fresh_water  streams  and lakes  in  Jammu and Kashmir , Himachal Pradesh and Uttar_Pradesh  are  ideal  for angling  and trout  fishing .
The coastal  regions  provide  excellent  opportunities  for water_sports  like water_skiing , windsurfing , yachting , snorkeling  and scuba_diving .
Further  south  you can enjoy  water  adventures  along both  the west  and the east  coasts  of India .
The islands  of Andaman and Nicobar in the Bay_of_Bengal  and Lakshadweep in the Indian_Ocean  are  virtually  untouched  and are  some of the best  spots  for scuba_diving  and snorkeling .
The beaches  of Goa  and Kerala also  offer  other  sporting  opportunities  like water_skiing , wind_surfing  and sailing .
The west  coast  offers  sailing  in Mumbai , Goa  and the lakes  around Pune.
For the white_water  rafting  enthusiast , the early  stages  of the  Ganga  offer  the exhilarating  Alakananda and Bhagirathi rivers .
The Indus  snaking  through Ladakh and the Zanskar and Chenab in  Kashmir  are  very  different  river  running  experiences .
The rivers  like the Sutlej, Beas (in Himachal Pradesh), Teetsa (in Sikkim ), and Yamuna also  offer  sporting  challenges .
The best  season  for river  rafting  is  from April  to September .
