The most  popular  stretch  for river  rafting  is  on the Ganges , near Rishikesh in Uttaranchal.
The 2  main  destinations  in India , which have  scuba_diving  activities , as well as courses  in the sport  are  the Andamans and Lakshadweep.
There are  opportunities  for anglers  in Bhalukpung in Assam .
The river  Jia Bhoroli, Kapili and Manas are  the best  places  for Golden Mahseer angling  since the days  of the British .
The challenge  of the turbulent  rivers  is  no  less  than that of the rugged  mountains .
The icy  heights  of the Himalayas  are  the source  of some of India  mighty  rivers .
Fed  by innumerable  streams  they race  along tortuous  boulder  strewn  beds , cutting  deep  gorges  and breaking  into silvery  white  rapids .
With the intricate  network  of mountain  rivers  flowing  through a myriad  of different  colors  of rocky  gorges , forests , flowers  and high  mountain  villages , the Garhwal and Kumaon hills  provide  ideal  locales  for the perfect  water  adventure .
The sport  of White_Water  River  rafting  calls  for a triumph  over the swift  swirling  river  as it gushes  past spectacular  mountains .
As with trekking , mountaineering  and other  sports , river  rafting  too  has been  classified  and graded  in terms of degrees  of difficulty .
There is , firstly , the pleasure  of a gentle  canoe  trip  in a lightweight  alloy  metal  craft , which holds  two  to three  people .
The gradient  best  suited  for canoeing  is  the stage  near the river  entry  into the plains  where the trip  can be combined  with moderate  hiking  and a naturalist ' holiday  in the forest . 
For the slightly  more  adventurous , kayaking  is  appealing  as it enables  innovation  on the river  by a solitary  oarsman  or two , seated  in tandem , the degree  of difficulty  would depend  on the river  gradient  and its rapids .
All  water_sports  are  for those adventure  seekers  for whom land  is  not  enough .
The suitable  period  for  river running  depends  on the adequacy  of water  volume .
In Garhwal region  the sacred  river   Ganga  offers  the professional  as well as the amateur  the exhilaration  of white_water  rafting .
The Alaknanda & Bhagirath are  the main  tributaries  of the  Ganga  and meet  at Devprayag, frothing  from their racy  descent .
Down_river  from Devprayag, the  Ganga  changes  into a 
 pool drop river .
Building  of Taj_Mahal : Besides  the miraculous  architectural  features  and the elaborate  ornamentation  of the Taj_Mahal , many  additional  features , which can often  be  overlooked , help  complement  and enhance  this spectacular  monument .
Unlike  other   Moghul  tombs , the garden  of the Taj_Mahal  has been laid_out  entirely  in front of the tomb  and does not  play  any  part  in the 'background '.
The background  is  not  constant ; it changes  its color  and texture  more than often, and the  Taj  is  always  presented  in a variety  of tints  and moods .
Background  shades  are subtly  reflected  on the white  marble  surface  of the Taj_Mahal , which changes  its color  and  complexion  accordingly .
The Makrana marble  used  is  of such a nature  that it takes_on  incredibly  subtle  variations  of tint  and tone , according  to the changes  in the light , thus  picturing  the passing  color  of the moment .
The colossal  height  of the tomb , along with its 
pyramidal  appearance  gives  the  Taj  a soaring  effect .
The  Taj  appears  as if it is about  to rise  into the sky   an ethereal  quality  full  of lightness  and grace .
The indigenous  builders  of the Taj_Mahal  fully  understood  the deceptive  nature  of the human  eye .
The builders  of the Taj_Mahal  knew  that the reality  and its perception  and interpretation  thereof  differed .
The plinth  of the main  tomb  of the Taj_Mahal  is 2 '10 '' high  on an average .
The convexity  has deliberately  been given  to the plinth  in the centre  of each  arch , or else  the building  would have appeared  as if it were falling_down ! 
The facades  are  not  exactly  at a right_angle  with the plinth , but are  slightly  inclined .
 :33 : The features  of the construction  of Taj_Mahal  demonstrate  the ability  of the Indian  architects  to reconcile  the illusionary  effects  created  by distance  and light .
In the Taj_Mahal   semioctagonal  pilasters  that rise  from the plinth  of the main  tomb  have  demarcated  sections  in each  facade .
The letter  of the inscription  around archways  at the Taj_Mahal , are  generally  supposed  to become  larger  and larger  above .
Instead , the letters  have been inscribed  densely  at the bottom , with little  plain  surface  in between ; the inscription  becomes  more  and more  sparse  as it rises  with plainer  surface  in between the letters .
The composition  of the forms  and lines  of the Taj_Mahal  is  perfectly  symmetrical .
At the Taj_Mahal  we meet  with a beautiful  admixture  of lines , horizontal  with vertical , and straight  with curved , all harmoniously  set  together  in the total  unity .
Especially  the  semioctagonal  alcoves  at the chamfered  angles , which are  perceptible  from every  perspective  view , give  a 3 dimensional  appearance  from the outset .
These rooms  were originally  used  for the mullahs  to chant  the Koran  and for musicians  who played  soft  Indian  and Persian  melodies .
The central  chamber  is  octagonal , and in the centre  is  the tomb  of the queen  and to one  side  is  the casket  of the emperor .
A bulbous  white  double  dome  majestically  crowns  the  Taj .
Besides  providing  a suitable  and proportionate  ceiling  to the interior  hall , it enabled  the builder  to raise  the height  of the outer  dome  as  much  as he desired  in order to present  a lofty  and imposing  effect .
The Taj_Mahal  is  situated  more_than  900  ft  (275  m .) away  from the entrance  at the opposite  end  of the garden .
The marble  mausoleum  is  square  in plan  with chamfered  corners .
The great  Moghul  emperor  Babar 
laid_out  the earliest  example  of a  Moghul  garden .
This imposing  mosque  was built  
in the name  of Jehanara Begum, Shah_Jahan  daughter .
Fatehpur Sikri is  an epic  in red  sandstone .
A city  of yesteryears , today  is  lost  in the mists  of time .
The Moghul  Emperor  Akbar built  Fatehpur Sikri during 1564  A.D .
Fatehpur Sikri is  a richly  decorated  structure ,  a quaint  mixture  of styles .
Agra Fort  is  located  on the banks  of the Yamuna near the railway_station .
Agra is  well  connected  by air  with Khajuraho, Varanasi, and Delhi .
Agra  has  good  rail  and bus  connections  with major  Indian  cities .
From the city  of Agra , there are  taxis ,  tempos ,  auto rickshaws , and cycle_rickshaws  to carry  one to the Agra fort .
Akbar, king  at 14 , began  consolidating  his empire  and, as an assertion  of his power , built  the fort  in Agra  between 1565  and 1571 , coeval  with the construction  of Humayun's tomb  in Delhi .
The Agra fort  retains  the irregular  outline  of the demolished  mud  wall  fort  of the Lodis.
The magnificent  towers , bastions  and ramparts  and majestic  gateways  symbolized  the confidence  and power  of the third  Moghul  emperor , Akbar.
The fort  contains  splendid  palaces  both in red  sandstone  and white  marble  built  by two  generations  of prolific  builders , Akbar and later  Jehangir and Shah_Jahan .
Of the nearly  500  Akbari buildings  built  in the Bengal  and Gujarati traditions  only  a few have survived , arrayed  in a band  on the  riverfront .
The Agra fort  is  auricular  in shape  and its colossal  double  walls  rise  20  m  in height  and measure  2 .5  m  in circumference .
The Agra fort  is encircled  by a fetid  moat .
The lofty  battlements  of the Agra fort  cast  its protective  shadow  over the far  stretching  mansions  of nobles  and princes  built  along the  riverfront .
The magnificent  towers , bastions  and ramparts  and majestic  gateways  symbolized  the confidence  and power  of the third  Moghul  emperor .
The Agra fort  contains  splendid  palaces  both in red  sandstone  and white  marble  built  by two  generations  of prolific builders , Akbar and later_on  by Jahangir and Shah_Jahan .
Though Agra  is  more  famous  world_over  as the city  of the  Taj , Agra Fort  is  another  dimension  of the city  that attracts  tourists  in hordes .
It was built  by Akbar in red  sandstone . 
When he was through  with the consolidation  of his power  after accession  to power  in 1654 , Agra Fort  worked  both as a military  strategic  point  as well as the royal  residence .
 :72 : Many of the palaces  inside the fort  were later  added  by next  generations  of Moghul  Emperors  like Jahangir and Shah_Jahan .
Most of the buildings  within the Agra Fort  are  a mixture  of different  architectural  styles .
The assimilation  of different  styles  has given  the buildings  within the fort  a distinctive  look .
For_instance , the Jahangiri Palace  built  by Akbar is  a good  blend  of Islamic  (Persian ) and different  local  Hindu  styles .
Completed  in 1653  A.D.  the Taj_Mahal  was built  by the Moghul  Emperor  Shah_Jahan  as the final   resting place  for his favorite  queen , Mumtaz.
Finished  in  marble , the  Taj  is  perhaps  India  most  fascinating  and beautiful  monument .
This perfectly  symmetrical  monument  took  22  years  (1630 1652 ) of hard  labor  and 20 ,000  workers , masons  and jewelers  to build  and is  set  amidst landscaped  gardens .
Fatehpur Sikri is  an epic  in red  sandstone .
Fatehpur Sikri, a city  of yesteryear , is  today  lost  in the mists  of time .
The Moghul  emperor  Akbar built  Fatehpur Sikri during 1564  A.D. .
The mausoleum  of emperor  Akbar represents  his philosophy  and  secular  outlook , combining  the best  of Hindu  and Muslim  architectures  in a superlative  region .
The great  Moghul  emperor  Akbar commissioned  the construction  of the Agra Fort  in 1565  A.D. , although additions  were made  till the time  of his grandson  Shah_Jahan .
ItmadudDaulah's tomb  is  the tomb  of Mirza Ghyas Beg, a Persian  who had obtained  service  in Akbar court .
It was  here  that "Pietra Dura",  the inlay  work  on marble  so  characteristic  of the  Taj ,  was  first  used .
On the sprawling  lawns  here , is  a beautiful  marble  temple  with beautiful  carvings  of fruits , flowers , leaves  and plants  which have been reduced  into stone  which are  true  to nature , and are  distinctive  specimens  of the plastic_art .
The time  of the year  when nature  dawns all  its colorful  splendor  and Agra  bursts  into colorful  celebrations .
There are  festivities  all around  and Agra  truly  puts_on  the colors  of joy  and gets  transformed  into one  nonstop  carnival .
Organised  by U.P. Tourism and held  as an annual  event  at Shilpgram, literally  next_door  to the 
Taj_Mahal , the Taj Mahotsav is  indeed  a fitting  tribute  to the legendary  skills  of master  craftsmen  and other  exponents  of art , music  and cuisine .
The festivities  commence  with a spectacular  procession  inspired  by  Moghul  splendor .
All help  recreate  a visual  delight  reminiscent  of the golden  era  of the Moghul  darbars.
Agra  is  famous  for handicraft  products  such as inlay  work  on marble , leatherwork , footwear , brass  ware , carpets , jewelry , zari and embroidery  work .
Agra  is  also  well_known  for Petha, Dalmoth and Gajak.
In Agra  the main  shopping  areas  are  the Sadar Bazar , Kinari Bazar  and Munro Road .
State  emporia  Gangotri (UP Govt.), Kairali (Kerala), Black Partridge (Haryana) and Kashmir Government  Arts  Emporium  are  all located  at the Taj Mahal Shopping  Arcade , Western  Gate .
The Agra  city  abounds  in restaurants , which offer  international  and Indian  cuisines .
Agra  is  famous  for snacks  and sweets  like Dalmoth and Petha, for which the most  recognized  area  is  Kinari Bazar .
The construction  of the Taj_Mahal  marble  masterpiece  is  credited  to the Moghul  emperor  Shah_Jahan  who erected  this mausoleum  in memory  of his beloved  wife , Arjumand Bano Begum, popularly  known_as  Mumtaz Mahal, who died  in AH 1040  
(AD  1630 ).
Mumtaz Mahal's last  wish  to her husband  was  "to build  a tomb  in her memory  such as the world  had never  seen  before ".
The construction  of the Taj_Mahal  was started  in AD  1632  and completed  at the end  of 1648  AD .
For seventeen  years , twenty  thousand  workmen  are said  to be  employed  on it daily : for their accommodation  a small  town , named  after the deceased  empress  'Mumtazabad, now  known_as  Taj Ganj, was built  adjacent  to it.
The Taj_Mahal  is  the one_and_only_one  of its kind  across the world .
The monumental  labor_of_love  of a great  ruler  for his beloved  queen .
The ultimate  realization  of emperor  Shah_Jahan ’s dreams , it is  one of the wonders  of the world .
An estimated  20 ,000  people  worked  to complete  the enchanting  mausoleum  on the banks  of the Yamuna.
Amanat Khan Shirazi was  the calligrapher  of the Taj_Mahal ; his name  occurs  at the end  of an inscription  on one of the gates  of the  Taj .
