Muhammad Hanif was  the superintendent  of the masons .
The designer  of the Taj_Mahal  was  Ustad Ahmad Lahauri.
The material  for the Taj_Mahal  was brought  in from all_over  India  and central  Asia  and it took  a  fleet  of 1000  elephants  to transport  it to the site .
For the Taj_Mahal  red  sandstone  was brought  from Fatehpur Sikri, jasper  from Punjab , jade  and crystal  from China , turquoise  from Tibet , lapis_lazuli  and sapphire  from Sri_Lanka , coal  and cornelian  from Arabia  and diamonds  from Panna.
In_all  28  kinds  of rare , semi_precious  and precious  stones  were used  for inlay  work  in the Taj_Mahal .
For the Taj_Mahal  the chief  building_material , the white  marble  was brought  from the quarries  of Makrana, in district  Nagaur, Rajasthan.
 :7 :The architecture  of the Taj_Mahal  has  an impressive  watercourse , which neatly  divides  the garden  into four  equal  parts  and heightens  the flawless  symmetry  of the entire  complex .
The canals  and waterworks  within the Charbagh provide  a grand  reflection  of the  Taj , further  emphasizing  the imagery  of the paradise .
The architects  who built  the Taj_Mahal  made  the canals  and the waterworks  in the garden , with the purpose  of generating  an upside_down  image  of the  Taj , to gel  with the divine  inspiration .
After the completion  of the Taj_Mahal , each  garden  within the Charbagh was divided  into 16  flowerbeds , making  a total  of 64 . 
It is said  that each  flowerbed  was planted  with 400  plants .
In the Taj_Mahal  trees  were planted  carefully   in accordance with  the symmetry  of the overall  plan .
These trees  housed  some of the most  exotic  birds , all of which added  to the breathtaking  environs  of the  Taj .
 :13 : The water  channels  crisscrossing  the garden  used_to  be  full  of colorful  fish  of various  species .
Special  care  was taken  to maintain  the garden , its waterworks  as members  of the royal_family  frequented  it and stayed  in the guesthouse  (mehmankhana) near it.
The city  of Agra  is  world  famous  for the Taj_Mahal , built  by the Moghul  emperor  Shah_Jahan   in memory of  his beloved  wife .
However , it is  also  famous  for the Agra Fort , which is  a veritable  treasure_trove  of the  Moghul  architectural  tradition .
The various  buildings  within this sprawling  fort  complex  represent  the assimilation  of different  cultures , which was  the mark  of the  Moghul  period .
The structure  of the Taj_Mahal  adheres  to the Islamic  style  ( Moghul  style ) of architecture , which flourished  in India  during the medieval  period .
The Islamic  style  of architecture  is  also  referred  to as the  IndoIslamic  style  of architecture .
This magnificent  monument  is  set  around a Charbagh or four  garden  plan , which is split  by watercourses , a reflection  of the Persian  style .
Ajanta Caves  Tour :  about  107  kms  from the city  of Aurangabad, the rock  cut  caves  of Ajanta nestle  in a panoramic  gorge , in the form  of a gigantic  horseshoe .
Among the finest  examples  of some of the earliest  Buddhist  architecture , cave  paintings  and sculptures , these caves  comprise  Chaitya Halls , or shrines , dedicated  to  Lord  Buddha  and Viharas, or monasteries , used  by Buddhist  monks  for meditation  and the study  of Buddhist  teachings .
The paintings  that adorn  the walls  and ceilings  of the caves  depict  incidents  from the life  of the Buddha  and various  Buddhist  divinities .
Among the more  interesting  paintings  are  the Jataka tales , illustrating  diverse  stories  relating  to the previous  incarnations  of the Buddha  as Bodhisattva , a saintly  being  who is destined  to become  the Buddha .
Occupied  for almost  700  years , the caves  of Ajanta seem  to have been abandoned  rather  abruptly .
Cascading  down the cliff  is  a spectacular  waterfall , which at the bottom  feeds  a natural  pool  called  the Saptakunda.
Ajanta has been designated  as a World  Heritage  Site , to be preserved  as an artistic   legacy  that will continue  to inspire  and enrich  the lives  of generations  to come .
The caves  of Ajanta can be classified  into two  distinct  phases   the earlier  Hinayana  phase  , in which the Buddha  was worshipped  only  in the form  of certain  symbols .
The history  of Elephanta is  found  in the hoary  mists  of time .
Attendant  gulls  hover  motionless  overhead , an occasional  fish  leaps_out  of the wake  furrowing  behind : it is  a pleasant  hour  and 15  minutes  to Elephanta.
Once  known_as  Puri, later  Gharapuri, this island  was  the proud  capital  of a powerful  coastal  kingdom  and the great  cave  shrine  in praise  of Shiva , excavated  in the sixth  century , added  to the splendor  of the ruling  dynasty .
Several  centuries  later  the Portuguese  took  possession  of the island .
Ajanta Finished  Caves  is  one of the finest  monasteries  at Ajanta.
Ajanta Finished  Caves  is  a representation  of the Miracle  of Shravasti when the Buddha  manifested  himself in thousand  forms .
Ajanta Finished  Caves  have  a central  doorway  embellished  with guardians , flying  figures , maidens  clutching  trees  and also  images  of the Buddha  and Ganas, or dwarfs , with garlands .
Mumbai  is  India  international   gateway .
The temples  of Khajuraho are  brilliant  examples  of medieval  Indian  architecture .
The reservations  of the room  can be made  well  in_advance  as per the requirements  of the tour .
The best  way  to know  about the glorious  heritage  of New_Delhi  is  to know  its monuments .
India  houses  many  luxurious  hotels  and resorts  to cater  to its booming  travel  and tourism  industry .
Fatehpur Sikiri is  a city  built  in red sandstone .
The terrific  Taj_Mahal  happens  to be  the most  popular  monument  in the entire  world .
Tourists  from_all_over  the world  come  to see  the backwater .
 In order to  promote  tourism  in the northeast  region , the Government  of India  has decided  to allow  foreign  tourists  to visit  Nagaland.
The ageold  art  of dyes  and colours  hold  the centre of attraction.
The original  palace  was built  by Raja  Man Singh and additions  were made  later  by Sawai Jai Singh.
India  is  a vast  country  and its physical  boundaries  are  spread  far_and_wide .
Kerala enjoys  unique  geographic  features  which has made  it one of the most  sought_after  tourist  destinations  in Asia .
India  offers  some  unique  destinations  that are best  reached  in jeeps .
There are  some  things  that are  really  hard  to find  in Lakshadweep.
The hall , which has  a collection  of hunting  trophies , has now  been converted  into a museum .
About  one  percent  of the population  of Kerala and Tamil_Nadu  are  tribal , whereas about  six  percent  in Andhra_Pradesh  and Karnataka  are  members  of tribes .
Built  by Maharaja  Gang Singh in memory of his father , the Lalgarh palace  is  situated  3  km  north  of Bikaner city .
India , a place  of infinite  variety , is  fascinating  with its ancient  and complex  culture .
The beauty  of Kerala cannot be just  written  or explained , it has to be experienced .
Kerala shares  its western  border  with the Arabian_Sea .
Near the gardens  of the Taj_Mahal  stands  the  Moghul  monument  known_as  Red  Fort  of Agra .
Hawa Mahal is  the most  recognizable  monument  of Jaipur.
City Palace  is  situated  in the heart  of the city ; it occupies  about  one_seventh  of the old  city  area .
Gaitore is  the final   resting place  of the Maharajas  of Jaipur and is  located  just  off the Jaipur Amber road .
Jaipur is  well  connected  to Delhi , Bombay , Ahemadabad through regular  flights  of Indian  Airlines .
Rajasthan is  the safest  state  in India  in terms of law  and order ; it offers  to its tourists  a safe  and secure  environment .
Jaipur is  262  kms  from Delhi  and is  well  connected  by road , rail  and air  from all_over  the country .
India  has  something  for everyone looking_for  adventure .
The west  coast  offers  sailing  in Mumbai , Goa  and the lakes  around Pune.
The best  months  for water_sports  are  October  and March .
India  is  home  to a rich  diversity  of wildlife .
There is  a tourist  dictionary  written  for ordinary  citizens .
India  harbours  eighty  percent  of the entire  population  of the one  hundred  rhinoceros  in the world .
The construction  of Imperial  Bombay  continued  well  into the 20 th  century .
The water_works , including  the Hanging Gardens  and the lakes  were also  built  at this time .
The boat_race  held  in the backwaters  of Kerala is  another  event  that just  should never  be missed .
A few  facts  about the climate  are  that Kerala does not  have  a dry  spell  as is in rest  of India .
Jaisalmer Fort  is  the oldest  fort  in the world .
The first  brush  with royalty  could be had  on the Palace on Wheels, the tourist  train  run  by the Rajasthan Tourism  Department .
Horse  safaris  are organized  in the Marwar region  of Rajasthan.
The city  of Jaipur is  capital  to the northern  Indian  state  of Rajasthan, famous  for its colorful  culture , forts , palaces  and lakes .
India , long  considered  only  a “culture ” destination , is  in_addition  the ultimate  “outdoor ” destination  as_well , with wide_ranging  options  for adventure .
The 14 th  century  hill fort , Kesroli is  the oldest  heritage  site  in India  where you can stay .
This is  a 500 year old  standing  still  in time .
Jaipur is  color  washed  pink  to welcome  Prince_Albert , the consort  of Queen_Victoria  of England  who visited  India  in 1883  A.D. .
The dance  is usually  performed  on specially  put_up  stages   connected  with temple  festivals .
Palace on Wheels is  a journey  worthy  of kings .
Regular  luxury  buses  are  available  round_the_clock  and also  special  trains  like the Shatabadi Express  and Intercity Express .
Finished  Caves  is  one of the finest  monasteries  at Ajanta.
About  107  kms  from the city  of Aurangabad, the rock  cut  caves  of Ajanta nestle  in a panoramic  gorge , in the form  of a gigantic  horse_shoe .
The history  of Elephanta is  the hoary  mists  of time .
Aurangabad: the closest  railhead  is  directly  connected  to Mumbai , Delhi , Agra  and Bhopal.
Aurangabad is  connected  to all  major  cities  and towns  by good  roads .
The  Maharashtra  State  Road  Transport  Corporation  runs  ordinary  and luxury  buses  from Aurangabad to Mumbai .
Ajanta Unfinished  Caves  are  unfinished  monasteries  of the second  phase  of excavation .
The present  splendid  dome  over the Mazar was constructed  by emperor  Shah_Jahan , who also  constructed  the Jama Masjid  in the year  1638 . 
The main  entrance  to the dargah, the Nizam gate  is  of 70  feet  in height ; it was constructed  by the Nizam of Hyderabad .
The historic  Buland Darwaza, which is  85  feet  high , was constructed  by Sultan Ghayasuddin of Mandu.
The Mehfil Khana or the main  hall  of the Dargah is  the place  where Qawwalis are sung  throughout the year .
The northern  side  of the Dargah has  a Langar Khana, where food  is cooked  and distributed  amongst the poor  and the needy  twice  every  day .
Urs is celebrated  from the 1 st  to the 9 th  of Rajab  annually .
The Ajmer Lake , situated  on the edge  of the desert  and surrounded  by hills  on the three  sides  is  separated  from Ajmer by Nag Pahar the Snake  mountain .
On Nag Pahar the Snake  mountain  the Panchkund and the cave  of saint  Agastya are  located .
It is believed  that Kalidasa the 4 th  century  Sanskrit  poet  and playwright  chose  the setting  for his masterpiece  "Abhigyana Shakuntalam" in Nag Pahar the Snake  mountain  forest  heritage .
