According  to a legend , the origin  of Pushkar dates_back  to the time  when  Lord  Brahma  was  on his way  in search  of a tranquil  land  to perform  a "Yagna", when a  lotus  fell  from the hand  of the  Lord  into this valley .
Pushkar fair  is  one of the most  colorful  fairs  of India .
Besides  the trading  of horse , camels , cows  and bulls , there are  exciting  camel  cart  races  and cultural  events : clothes , household  items  and leather  goods  are  for sale  during the fair . 
On the full_moon  of Kartik  , pilgrims  take  a holy  dip  in the lake .
 :4 : Along the banks  of the Pushkar Lake  is  the former  residence  of Raja  Man Singh of Ajmer, Man Mahal.
Presently  Man Mahal has been converted  into RTDC Sarover Tourist  Bungalow  ensuring  convenient  accommodation  to travelers .
While shopping  in Ajmer, one can go  on a buying  spree  of various  kinds  of items  representing  Rajasthani culture  and style .
The 'Ittar' (perfume ) is  a major  specialty  of Ajmer.
During the Urs fair , folk  artisans  and craftsmen  display  their talent  and offer  a tempting  range  of intriguing  and colorful  items  at 
competitive  prices .
Shopping  is  a delightful  experience  in Pushkar fair ; a wide  range  of handicraft  items  are displayed  on roadside  stalls .
From Ajmer the nearest  airport  is  Jaipur which is  135  kms  away .
Ajmer is  connected  with bus  from all  places  like Jaipur, Agra , Aligarh, Abu Road, Bikaner, Bharatpur, Barmer, Haridwar, Chittorgarh, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Nagaur.
Ajmer, the city  where the Dargah of the great  Sufi  Saint  Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti stands , is  a sacred  center  of pilgrimage .
Hallowed  by the memories  of the great  seer , Ajmer has earned  the epithet  of Madinatul Hind or the Medina  of India .
South_west  of Jaipur, Ajmer is  an oasis  wrapped  in the green  hills .
The Ajmer city  was founded  by Raja  Ajay Pal Chauhan in the 7 th  century  A.D.  and continued  to be  a major  centre  of the Chauhan power  till 1193  A.D.  when Prithviraj Chauhan lost  it to Mohammed Ghauri.
Today , Ajmer is  a popular  pilgrimage  centre  for the Hindus  as well as Muslims .
Ajmer is  especially  famous  for the Dargah Sharif, the tomb  of the Sufi  saint  Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti, which is equally  revered  by the Hindus  and Muslims .
Ajmer is  a centre  of culture  and education ; the British  chose  it for its prestigious  Mayo College , a school  exclusively  for Indian  nobility .
Ajmer is  also  the base  for visiting  Pushkar (11  km .), the abode  of  Lord  Brahma , lying  to its west  with a temple  and a picturesque  lake .
The Pushkar Lake  is  a sacred  spot  for Hindus .
During the month  of Kartik  (Oct.  /Nov. ), devotees  throng  in large  numbers  here  to take  a dip  in the sacred  lake .
Ajai Pal Chauhan founded  Ajmer in the seventh  century .
Ajmer was  also  a favorite  residence  for the great  Moghuls .
The  bus stand  in Ajmer is  located  near the RTDC hotel  Khadim and the railway  is  further  north  and most of the hotels  are  west  of the stations .
Khwaja Saheb is  also  known_as  Sanjari as his ancestors  belonged  to Sanjar.
Khwaja Ishaq Shami, one of his predecessors  settled  in a hamlet  called  Chishti near Hirat.
Khwaja Saheb is  the landmark  of Ajmer and one of the holiest  of Muslim  shrines  in the country .
The red  temple  is  a Digambar Jain  temple  which has  a double  storey  hall  adjacent to the main  temple .
The hall  displays  a series  of large  gold  plated  wooden  figures  depicting  legends  from Jain  mythology .
The entire  hall  is richly  adorned  by glass  mosaic , precious_stones , gold  and silver  work . 
The fort  also  has  Miran Saheb ki Dargha who was  the governor  of the fort  and laid down his life in an encounter . 
The fort  also  has Miran Saheb ki Dargha who was  the governor  of the fort  and laid down his life in an encounter .
The fort  is a masterpiece  of  Indo Islamic  architecture .
The 'Baradari' pavilion  was built  by Shah_Jahan , to facilitate  his long  stays  in Ajmer.
The Baradari and the adjoining  parks  are  the lungs  of the city  and favorite  outing  spots .
Places  to See  in Ajmer: The Dargah  at the foot  of a barren  hill   is  situated  India  most  important  pilgrimage  centre  for people  from all  faiths .
Centuries  after Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti's demise , his teachings  are  still  a source  of guidance  and inspiration  for mankind .
It is believed  that Khwaja Saheb had  a vision  of Ajmer in a dream  while in Madina, and he also  received  the spiritual  inspiration  to come  here .
In the corner  of the inner  court  of the Dargah, is  a magnificent  building  in white  marble  with a long  and narrow  court  having  a low  arcade  and delicate  carvings  with trellis  work . 
A remarkable  structure , this is  a masterpiece  of  Indo Islamic  architecture  located  on the outskirts  of the Ajmer city .
The fort  was  the site  of the military  activity  during the  Moghul  period  later  used  as a sanatorium  by the British .
Once  the royal  residence  of Emperor  Akbar, the museum  houses  a rich  repository  of the  Moghul  and Rajput  armor  and exquisite  sculptures .
The former  British  Residency, overlooking  the artificial  lake , Ana Sagar, has now been converted  into the Circuit House.
The lake  and the  cenotaph  and the shrine  of the Hindu  reformer  Swami  Dayanand, founder  of the Arya Samaj movement  in India , can be viewed  from here .
A place  to see  in Alleppey Kuttanad, called  the rice  bowl  of Kerala because of her wealth  of paddy  crops , and is  at the very  heart  of the backwaters .
The scenic  countryside  of Kuttanad with its shimmering  waterways  also  has  a rich  crop  of banana , cassava  and yam ; this is  perhaps  the only  region  in the world  where farming  is done  1 .5  to 2  m  below sea_level .
Inland  waterways  which flow  above land  level  are  an amazing  feature  of this region .
Inland  waterway  is  one of the most  popular  picnic  spots  in Alappuzha.
Entertainment  facilities  at the Vijaya beach  park  add  to the attractions  of the beach .
There is  also  an old  lighthouse  which is  greatly  fascinating  to visitors .
According  to mythology  a young  brahmin  dived  into the Vembanad Lake  to perform  his evening  ablutions  and the water  made_way  for land  to rise  from below , thus  creating  the enchanting  island  of Pathiramanal (Sands  of Midnight ). 
This little  island  on the backwaters  is  a favorite  haunt  of hundreds  of rare  migratory  birds  from different  parts  of the world .
The island  lies  between Thaneermukkom and Kumarakom, and is  accessible  only  by boat .
The ancient  shrine  is  an internationally  renowned  pilgrim  centre  dedicated  to the Serpent  God  Nagaraja.
Sarpa Yakshi and Naga Yakshi are  the beloved  consorts  of Nagaraja.
Sarpa Yakshi and Naga Yakshi are  the beloved  consorts  of Nagaraja.
One of the oldest  churches  in Kerala, the St Mary's Church  is believed  to be  one of the seven  established  by St_Thomas .
It is  now  a holy  shrine  and spiritual  resort  where thousands  of devotees  gather  for prayer , receive  favors  and feel  amply  gratified .
Here , a 250  year  old  historically  important  beacon  of light  is preserved  intact  in its original  and primitive  form . 
Built  in the typical  Kerala architectural  style , this temple  is  famous  all_over  India  for the Palpayasam, the daily  offering  of deliciously  sweet  milk  porridge .
 :62 : Paintings  of the Dasavatharam are  on display  on the inner  walls  of the Chuttambalam. 
Ottanthullal, a satiric  art_form  originated  by the poet  Kunchan Nambiar, was first  performed  on the premises  of this temple .
 :63 : The St Sebastian's Church  here  is  an important  Christian  pilgrim  centre .
Annual  festival  Arthunkal Perunnal, is the  feast  of the patron_saint  St. Sebastian.
Established  in 1810 , the church  is dedicated  to St._George .
 :68 : It is believed  that prayers  and offerings  at this church  help  to heal  all  mental_disorders  and other  ailments .
During the annual   feast  (5 th , 6 th  and 7 th  of May ) pilgrims  from all  parts  of South  India , irrespective  of caste  and creed , visit  the church  and seek  the blessings  of the saint .
The Kettukazhcha festival  at this temple  draws  large  crowds  of devotees .
Built  by Marthanda Varma, this palace  at Karthikapally in Kayamkulam is  famous  for its mural  depicting  the story  of Gajendramoksham. 
Dating_back  to the 18 th  century , this exquisite  piece  of art  is  one of the largest  murals  in Kerala.
 :70 : Many  fascinating  legends  are  associated  with this 11 th  century  statue  of  Lord  Buddha .
Referred  to as the Venice  of the East  by travelers  from across the world , this backwater  country  is  also  home  to diverse  animal  and bird  life . 
 By virtue of  its proximity  to the sea , the town  has always  enjoyed  a unique  place  in the maritime  history  of Kerala.
Today , Alappuzha has grown  in importance  as a backwater  tourist  centre , attracting  several  thousands  of foreign  tourists  each  year .
Alappuzha is  also  famous  for its boat_races , houseboat  holidays , beaches , marine  products  and coir  industry .
A land  of lush  paddy  fields , Kuttanad is  called  the rice  bowl  of Kerala and is  one of the few  places  in the world  where farming  is done  below sea_level .
The city  of Allahabad is  among the largest  cities  of Uttar_Pradesh  and is  situated  at the confluence  of three  rivers   Ganga , Yamuna and the invisible  Saraswati.
The meeting  point  is  known_as  Triveni and is  especially  sacred  to Hindus .
Prayag is  one of the historic  & mythological  cities  of India  with a glorious  past  and present .
Allahabad is  a city  of mixed  culture  of Hindu , Muslims , Jain s and Christians .
According  to Hindu  mythology ,  Lord  Brahma , the creator  God  of the Trinity , chose  a land  on Earth  (ie  Prayag) to perform  Prakrista Yag, at the beginning  of the Creation  and he also  refered  to it as Tirth Raj or the King  of all  pilgrimage  centers .
As per the writing  of Padam Puran   As the sun  is  amongst the moon  and the moon  amongst the stars , likewise  Prayag is  best  amongst all  places  of pilgrimage .
The bathing  at Prayag is mentioned  in Brahma Purana   "Bathing  in the month  of Magha  at the bank  of Ganga Yamuna in Prayag bestows  results  of millions  and millions  of Ashvmedha Yajna."  
Prayag is  the birthplace  of Som, Varuna  and Prajapati .
 :87 : Prayag has been  associated  with mythological  personalities  in Brahmanical (Vedic ) and Buddhist  literatures .
The present  Jhunsi area , very  close  to Sangam, was  the kingdom  of Chandrabanshiya (lunar  clan ) king  Pururava.
In 1575  AD  emperor  Akbar founded  the city   by the name  of 'Illahabas', which has now  become  'Allahabad', meaning 'The City  of Allah '.
Allahabad has been  rich  in numerous  Victorian  and Georgian  buildings  made  in synthesis  with Indian  architectural  traditions . 
This Allahabad city  was  the heart  of the Indian  Freedom  Movement  against the British  rule  with Anand Bhawan being  the  epicenter ; it was  in Allahabad that Mahatama_Gandhi  proposed  his program  of nonviolent  resistance  to liberate  India .
Allahabad is  basically  an administrative  and educational  city .
From the days  of civilization  Allahabd has been  a seat  of learning , wisdom  and writing .
Allahabd is  the most  vibrant , politically  and spiritually  conscious  and spiritually  awakened  city  of India .
The holy  place  Sangam is  the place  where the three  holy  rivers   Ganga , Yamuna, and the mythical  Saraswati merge  into one .
Sangam offers  fascinating  view  at sunrise  and sunset .
The place  comes alive, during the Kumbh Mela and the Ardh Kumbh, attracting  millions  of devotees  from all across the country .
The place comes alive, during the Kumbh Mela and the Ardh Kumbh, attracting millions of devotees from all across the country.(sentence repeated)
The lofty  Allahabad fort , built  by emperor  Akbar in 1583  AD , on the bank  of river  Yamuna, stands  close  to the Sangam.
For a celestial  trip  of the scientific  kind , visit  the planetarium ; its worth  every  moment . 
Here  you can take  your weight  on Moon  and Jupiter ; a Moon  model  is  on display .
 :98 : When  Gandhiji  started  Salt  Satyagraha  in 1930 , Allahabad took  a leading  part . 
At_present  it houses  office  of Jawahar Lal Nehru Fund  and a children  school  for creative  art .
 :99 : Allahabad is  one of the oldest  cities  of India  and a pilgrimage  centre  and is  also  famous  for the Kumbh and Ardh Kumbh Melas held  every  twelve  and six  years  respectively .
Allahabad is  also  known  for its annual  Magh  Mela ( mini  Kumbh Mela) and colorful  Dussehra festival .
The present  city  of Allahabad was founded  by the Moghul  emperor  Akbar in 1575  A.D. . 
Realizing  its strategic  importance  as a waterway  landmark  in north  India , Akbar built  a magnificent  fort  on the banks  of the holy  'Sangam'.
 :102 : Every  12 th  year  during the months  of Jan   Feb , the world  famous  Kumbh Mela is held  here  on the banks  of the holy  Sangam; Ardha Kumbh Mela is held  every  6 th  year .
The Magh  Mela is  the annual  version  of the Kumbh and Ardh kumbh mela which starts  every  year  from Makar Sankranti in Jan  and ends  at Maha Shivratri in Feb .
A fabulous  Sita  Rama  Temple  in the palace  attracts  a number  of devotees , especially  during Ramnavami.
