The state  of Karnataka , formerly  known_as  Mysore , is  a state  of strong  contrasts , with the modern  industrialized  city  of Bangalore  at one  extreme  and expanses  of rural  farming  areas  at the other.
Karnataka  also  has  some of the most  interesting  historic  architecture  in India .
In the Garden  City  you can visit  the Lal Bagh with a variety  of old  trees , fountains , lotus  pools , terraces  and an assortment  of tropical  and subtropical  herbs .
In the Garden  City  you can visit  also  the Maharaja  Palace  and government  buildings . 
The sunny , southern  coastal  town  is named  after the local  goddess  Mangladevi.
In Manglooor you may visit  the tile , boat  making , coffee  curing  and cashew_nut  factories , St. Aloysius Chapel  with its 100  years  old  paintings , Shrimati Bai Memorial  Museum , Beedi factory , Jain  Temples , Fort , Saib Mosque  and Music  Gallery . 
The Chenna Kesava temple  of Belur built  900  years  ago  is  an exquisite  example  of Hoysala art .
Halebid's 12 th  century  Hoysaleswara and Kedareswara temples  are  masterpieces  of Hindu  art .
In Mysore  you can visit  the Palace  of the Maharaja  built  in 1911 12 .
The Maharaja  palace  is  a harmonious  synthesis  of the Hindu  and  Saracenic  styles  of architecture  with archways , domes , turrets , colonnades  and sculptures  which are  magnificent .
Visit  the art_gallery ; drive  upto Chamundi Hill  to see  Chamundeshwari Temple  and a panoramic  view  of Mysore . 
On the way  back , see  the Nandi Bull .
 :12 : The island  fortress  of Haidar Ali and his son  Tipu Sultan is  picturesquely  located  in the river  Cauvery.
Brindavan Gardens , the splendidly  planned  ornamental  garden  at the Krishnarajasagar Dam , are  a  must see  for visitors .
A vast  stretch  of land  on the banks  of river  Cauvery on the Bangalore /Mysore  highway , it consists  of islets  in the Cauvery river  which are  full  of thousands  of species  of birds  including  herons , openbill  stork ,  white ibis , little_egret , cattle_egret , darter , spoonbill  cormorant ,  pond heron ,  river tern  and many  more and also  crocodiles .
Bandipur Tiger  Reserve : this Tiger  reserve  has  open  forests  and facilities  for viewing  wildlife  from elephant  back . 
Nagarhole National_Park  is  a fine  wildlife  reserve  that is  within easy  reach  of Mysore .
Bangalore  is  directly  connected  by rail  with Ahmedabad, Mumbai , Calcutta , Cochin, Delhi , Guwahati, Howarah, Hyderabad , Mangalore, Chennai , Mysore , Nagpur, Tiruvananthapuram, VascodaGama (Goa ) and other  cities  in India .
Regular  bus_service  connect Bangalore  to Belgaum, Bidar, Bijapur, Mumbai , Coimbatore, Goa , Hospet, Hyderabad , Chennai , Madikere, Madurai, Mangalore, Mysore , Tirupati, Nandi Hills, Chanrajaragar, Jog Falls , Ootacamund (Ooty), Raichur, Ernakulam, Gulbarga, Pondicherry, Calicut, Dharwar, etc. .
Bangalore  is  one of Asia  fastest  growing  cities .
Bangalore  is  situated  at an altitude  of 920  metres  above sea_level .
Bangalore  is  the principal  administrative , cultural , commercial  and industrial  centre  of the state  of Karnataka .
Spread over an area of 2190   square kilometers , Bangalore  enjoys  a pleasant  and equable  climate  throughout the year .
Tree lined  streets  and abundant  greenery  made  Bangalore  the 'Garden  City ' of India . 
However , since local  entrepreneurs  and technology  giant  Texas Instruments discovered  Bangalore  potential  as a hightech  city  in the early  1980 's.
Bangalore  has seen  a major  technology  boom  and is  now  home  to more_than  250  hightech  companies , including  homegrown  giants  like Wipro and Infosys.
The erstwhile  garden  city  has now  been pegged the 'Silicon_Valley ' of India .
Bangalore  was founded  by Kempe Gowda in the early  16 th  century .
After the 16 th  century , Bangalore  became  an important  fortress  city  under its rulers  Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan.
The ruins  of those periods  can still  be seen  on the Bellary Road , at Lal Bagh, Ulsoor and Gavi Gangadhareswar Temple .
The people  in the Bangalore  city  are  warm , hospitable  and friendly .
Bangalore  is generally  regarded  as a place  that most  visitors  like  to chill_out  in.
Along with the modern  day  pubs , discos  and hangouts , one can still  see  remnants  of the older  Bangalore .
All_in_all , Bangalore  is  a lovely  city  to visit .
One of Bangalore  most  attractive  features  continues  to be  its pleasant  weather .
Bangalore  meets  the season  expectations , which means , it is  warm  in the summer , chilly  in winter  and the monsoons  visit  regularly .
March  to May  (warmest  months ), December  to January  (coldest  months ), June  to September  (rainy   southwest  monsoon ), November  to December  (rainy   northeast  monsoon ) are  the best  times  to visit   Bangalore .
Vidhana Soudha is  located  at the northern  boundary  of Cubbon Park : this majestic  building , with a total  plinth  area  of over 5 ,00 ,000  sq._ft  is built  in a Neo Dravidian style .
The gleaming  white  domes , pillars  and archways  resemble  the architectural  pattern  of Mysore  old  palaces .
The huge , carved  doors  of the cabinet  room  are made  of pure  sandalwood .
The entire  building , when floodlight  on Sunday  evenings , presents  a truly  breathtaking  picture .
Lal  Bagh:  these 240 acre  gardens  were laid_out  during the Muslim  era  (18 th  century ) by Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan, 200  years  ago .
Lal Bag contains  the largest  collection  of rare  tropical  and subtropical  plants  with many  awesome  century old  trees .
Fountains , terraces , lotus  pools , rose_gardens  and a deer  park  surround  the magnificent  glass_house  built  in 1840 , on the lines  of London  Crystal Palace .
The annual  flower , fruit  and vegetable  shows are regularly  held  here .
Lal Bagh also  houses  the offices  of the Karnataka  Horticultural  Society  that renders  free  advice  to those interested  in flowers  and gardens .
A giant  electronic  quartz  flower  clock  is  also  in the garden  of Lal Bagh.
Cubbon Park  was planned  and laid_out  in 1864 : this beautiful  300 acre  park  contains  the public  library  and the museum .
The illuminated  "fairy  fountain " and the elegant   GraecoColonial  style  buildings  add  to the beauty  of Cubbon park .
The imposing  red  Gothic  structure  within this park  is  Seshadri Iyer Memorial  Hall , which houses  the public  library . 
Also  situated  here  are  the  High Court , the Government  Museum , the Technology  Museum , the Government  Aquarium  and the Jawaharlal Bal Bhavan.
Situated  opposite  the City Market , the Fort  is  noted  for its beautifully  carved  Islamic style  arches  on the gate  walls , and for the well preserved  Ganesha  Temple  within its  precincts .
One of the temple  outer  walls  carries  an exquisite  carving  of  Sri Krishna  playing  his flute , and within , there is  a fine  statue  of  Lord  Ganesha .
Originally  built  in mud  by Kempe Gowda in 1537 , the Fort  was extended  and fortified  by Tipu Sultan.
Tipu Sultan preserved  the Ganesha Temple  as a testament  to his religious  tolerance .
The fort  is   open  to the public  from 6  am  to 6  p.m. .
Tipu's Palace  is  situated  near the fort ;  the construction  of this palace  was begun  by Tipu Sultan's father  Haider Ali, and completed  by Tipu himself in 1791 .
Tipu's Palace  resembles  the Daria Daulat Palace  at Srirangapatna, Tipu's capital .
Tipu's Palace  was  known_as  `Rashkejannat'  the Envy  of Heaven .
Constructed  largely  of wood , Tipu's Palace  is  known  for its five  elaborately  decorated  arches  surmounted  by exquisite  minarets  and paintings  on the walls  and ceilings .
Bangalore  has  some  beautiful  temples .
Adjoining  Tipu's summer  palace  is  the Venkataramanaswamy Temple , a 300 year  old  temple  built  by the Wodeyars and still  in very  good  condition .
South  of Bangalore  in Basavangudi, is  the Bull  Temple  built  by Kempe Gowda.
The deity  is  a massive  15 foot  Basava or bull , which was believed  to have been  the vehicle  of  Lord  Shiva .
The cause  for wonder  about this Nandi is  that it has been carved  from a single  boulder .
Another  impressive  temple  is  the Gavi Gangadhareswara temple , an unusual  cave  temple .
Gangadhareswara temple  has been  designed  in such a manner  that  on the festival  of Sankranti, a local  festival , the rays  of the sun  pass  between the horns  of the Nandi placed  outside the temple , illuminating  the image  of  Lord  Shiva .
Another  temple  dedicated  to  Lord  Shiva  is  the Someshwara Temple  built  by Kempe Gowda in Ulsoor.
35  kms  from Bangalore  at Hesaraghatta is  the famous  Nritya Gram, a centre  for dance  that imparts  extensive  training  in seven  dance  disciplines  and two  martial_art  forms  to residential  students .
The Nrityagram celebrates  the Vasantha Habba (the spring ) every  year .
Renowned  artists  are invited  to come  and perform  in a nightlong  gala , open  to the public .
The Hesaraghatta Lake , a manmade  lake , near the village  is  also  a popular  tourist  spot .
Just  21  kms  from the city  and easily  accessible  by road  is  the Bannerghatta National_Park .
A part  of the Bannerghatta forest , the park  houses  a  mini  zoo , a crocodile  farm , and lion  and tiger  safari_parks .
Situated  60  kms  from Bangalore , at a height  of 1478  m  above sea_level , is  the Nandi Hills resort .
What used  to be  the favorite  summer   getaway  of Tipu Sultan is  now  a popular  picnic  spot  with its awesome  fort , sprawling  lawns  and two  ancient  temples .
The Shri Satya Sai Baba ashram  is  the chief  attraction  at Whitefield.
Shri Satya Sai Baba ashram  is  now  more_or_less  a suburb  of Bangalore , with increased  access  lines  and more  people  moving_into  the neighborhood .
The ashram  is  called  Brindavan and any  
public  transportation  will take  you there , though 
 auto rickshaws  may make  a bit  of noise  about the extra  charge  you ought to pay .
Brindavan is  an interesting  place  and the sage  has  quite a few  interesting  aspects  to his personality .
Nandi Hills is  a hill  resort  near Bangalore  whose solitude has not  been tampered  by commercialization .
The weather  is  very  pleasant  and though a far_cry  from the misty  Himalayan   hillstations , Nandi Hills has  a very  pleasant  ambience  about it, a nice  place  to chill_out  in if you are  in the vicinity .
For_one , it has been  a popular  hill  retreat  right  from the days  of Tipu Sultan who is said  to have visited  here  occasionally .
Tipu's drop , a 600 metre  high  cliff  offers  a fantastic  view  of the plains  down  below .
A little  away  from the city  is  Ramohalli, a picturesque  picnic  spot , that boasts  of a 400 year  old  sprawling  banyan_tree , spread  over 4  acres .
The region  around Bangalore  is dotted  with gigantic  rock  formations , the two  notable  ones being  Shivaganga (4599_ft . high ) and Savandurga.
Mysore  is  just  139  kms  by road  from Bangalore .
Mysore  was  the capital  city  of Hyder Ali, Tipu Sultan and the entire  Wodeyar clan .
Mysore  prime  attractions  are  the Mysore Palace , the Chamundi Hills , the famous  Brindavan Gardens , the Jayachamarajendra Art_Gallery  located  in the Jaganmohan Palace , the Mysore Zoo  and St. Philomena's Church .
15  kms  from Mysore  is  the old  capital  of Tipu Sultan, Srirangapatna.
Srirangapatna’s fort  bears_witness  to the Tiger  of Mysore  last  battle  against the British .
Srirangapatna’s mausoleum , the Gumbaz, which sports  ivory  inlaid  doors  and the famous  tigerstriped  emblem  is  also  nearby .
Near Srirangapatna is  the Ranganathittu Bird_Sanctuary .
40  kms  away  from Mysore  is  the Somnathpur Temple , a starshaped  structure  built  in 1260  A.D , an outstanding  example  of Hoysala architecture .
49  kms  from Bangalore  city , Ramanagaram is  famous  for its rock  formations , a great  attraction  for rock_climbers .
Ramanagaram is  also  an important  silk  cocoon  market .
Shivaganga, 50  kms  from the city_center , is  a hill  which provides  a breathtaking  view  of the the nearby  areas .
194  kms  from Bangalore  is  Hassan, from where one can go  to Belur, Halebid and Shravanabelagola.
Shravanabelagola is  a famous  Jain  pilgrimage  with a 17  m  high  monolith  of  Lord  Bahubali standing  tall .
For those that have  business  and more  business  on their minds , the International Tech Park in Bangalore  offers  a superb  business  advantage  to corporations  seeking  a foothold  in India , one of the world  biggest  emerging  markets .
