The futuristic  Park is built  to exacting  international  standards , supported  by stateoftheart  infrastructure .
 :2 : Amidst a refreshing  and aesthetically  appealing  environment , the park offers  a  onestop  solution , integrating  office , production , commercial , residential  and recreational  needs  in a single  location .
 :3 : The International Tech Park  is meticulously  designed  and built  to suit  the requirements  of international  hitech  companies  in the field  of information_technology , software  development , electronics , telecommunication , research  and development , financial  services  and other  non polluting  hitech  industries .
 :4 : Electronics City  is  an industrial_park  spread over 330  acres  exclusively  meant  for electronics_industries .
 :5 : All  the major  Indian  festivals  are celebrated  in Bangalore  with pomp  and gaiety .
 :6 : With the mix  of people  in Bangalore , it is  common  to see  Christmas  and Ramadan  celebrated  with equal  vigour .
 :7 : The new_year  is celebrated  more  enthusiastically  in Bangalore  than any  other  festival .
 :8 : Listed  among some of India  more  offbeat  festivals , the Karaga Festival  is  one that tests  an individual  sense  of balance   both that of the body  and of the mind .
 :9 : The sight  of people  trying  to balance  a series  of pots  on their heads  and doing  so  with consummate  ease  is  quite  a sight .
 :10 : Bangalore  is  well  connected  with almost  every  major  south  Indian  city .
 :11 : Bangalore  is  extremely  well  connected  by air  with major  cities  in India  and is served  by Indian  Airlines , Jet airways  and Sahara Airlines  with frequent  flights .
 :12 : Bangalore  is  now  an international  airport  as_well  and is currently  served  by Lufthansa, Malaysian  Airlines , Indian  Airlines , Air India and a few  other  international  airlines .
 :13 : Bangalore  is  well  connected  to Delhi , Mumbai , Chennai , Hyderabad  and to almost  all  other  cities  in southern  India  by a network  of super  fast  trains .
 :14 : Mysore  is  a major  craft centre  with numerous  shops  selling  an incredible  range  of ivory , sandalwood , rosewood  and teak  carvings  and furniture .
 :15 : Until independence , the city  was  the seat  of the Maharajas  of Mysore , a princely  state  covering  most of Karnataka .
 :16 : The 10  day  Dussehra festival  is  one of the major  attractions , culminating  in the long  procession  of caparisoned  elephants , liveried  retainers  and cavalry .
 :17 : Mysore  was  the political  capital  of the Wodeyar dynasty  which ruled  the state  of Karnataka  for some  150  years  till the independence  of the country  from the British .
 :18 : These kings  were  great  patrons  of art  and culture  and Mysore  was  the cultural  capital  of the south  under the rule  of the Wodeyars.
 :19 : Chamundi Hills is  a 1150  m  hill  that is named  after Goddess  Durga , the  consort  of  Lord  Shiva , who vanquished  the  demon  Mahishasura.
 :20 : From the top  of the Chanmundi Hill  one can have  a panoramic  view  of Mysore .
 :21 : Built  enormous  and lavish  in 1911  to replace  the old  palace  in the fort  that burned_down , the Maharaja  Palace  is  an extravagance  of domes , arches , turrets  and sculptures .
 :22 : Maharaja  Palace  is  a fine  example  of  IndoSaracenic  style  of architecture .
 :23 : With vast  pillared  corridors  and stately  halls , carved  ceilings , intricate  mosaics , carving  in ivory , stone  and wood , life_like  paintings , antique  royal  weapons , Maharaja  Palace  is  a must  in every  visitor ’s itinerary .
 :24 : Built  in the 12 th  century , a fine  example  of  Dravidian  temple  architecture , Krishnaraja Wodeyar renovated  the Chamundeswari Temple  in 1827 .
 :25 : The Chamundeswari Temple  tower  is  40  m  high  with seven  storeys .
 :26 : On the way  to the Chamundeswari temple , there is  a monolithic  statue  of Nandi Bull  and a mortar  statue  of Mahishasura.
 :27 : Srigangapatnam, island  fortress  of Hyder Ali and his son Tipu Sultan is  picturesquely  located  in the river  Cauvery.
 :28 : Within the fort  walls  that still  carry  the poignant  scars  of Tipu's last  stand  against the British , are  a mosque  and the Ranganathaswamy Temple .
 :29 : The ‘Daria Daulat’, Tipu's summer  palace  with a beautifully  gilded  and painted  interior  and the majestic  ‘Gumbaz’ his mausoleum , are  located  close  to the river .
 :30 : The splendidly  planned  ornamental  gardens  at the Krishnarajasagar Dam  are  a  must see  for visitors ; its fine  terraced  lawns  and swirling  fountains  are  illuminated  over the weekend  to give  it a fairy_tale  quality .
 :31 : St. Philomena's Church :  this beautiful  cathedral  was built  in 1956  and is  one of the largest  churches  in the country .
 :32 : St. Philomena's Church  has been built  in the Gothic  style  with beautiful  stained_glass  windows  and lofty  towers .
 :33 : The illuminated  St. Philomena's Church  in the evening  is  a wonderful  site  not  to be missed .
 :34 : The starshaped  temple  at Somnathpur is  a splendid  example  of Hoysala architecture .
 :35 : The temple  at Somnathpur is embellished  with a profusion  of finely  sculpted  friezes  and panels .
 :36 : The temple  at Somnathpur is  well  preserved  and not  to be missed .
 :37 : The Bandipur Tiger  Reserve  has open  forests  and facilities  for viewing  wildlife  from elephant  back .
 :38 : The Nagarhole National_Park  is  a fine  wildlife  reserve  that is  within easy  reach  of Mysore .
 :39 : Nagarhole National_Park  dense  deciduous  forests  are  the habitat  of the tiger , leopard , gaur , elephant , sambar ,  chital  or the 
 spotted deer , wild_boar , pangolin , langur , macaques  and about  250  species  of birds , including  the magnificent   Malabar Pied Hornbill  and the  Great Black Woodpecker . 
There are  excellent  facilities  for visitors  to stay  at the Kabini River Lodge  and for viewing  wildlife .
 :41 : Mysore  celebrates  regional , national  and religious  festivals  with pomp  like any  other  part  of the country .
 :42 : Mysore  is  synonymous  with Dasara celebrations .
 :43 : Several  religious , cultural  and other  programmes  mark  the 10 day long  celebrations , which fall  generally  in the months  of September October , depending  on the auspicious  days  of the Hindu  calendar .
 :44 : Tourists  from India  and  abroad  come  to Mysore  to see  the various  tourist  attractions  and witness  the special  programmes  arranged  during the 10 day  festival  and in_particular  the last  day  Dasara procession .
 :45 : On all  the ten  days , the Mysore Palace  is  illuminated  and renowned  musicians  of the state  and outside  give  performances  in front of the Palace .
 :46 : The Mysore Palace  is  also   thrown open  to the visitors  and the royal  throne  is displayed .
 :47 : During the nine  days , the state  government  arranges  music , dance , folk_dance , doll  shows , wrestling  and sports  competitions .
 :48 : The Kannadiga new_year  day  of Yugadi that falls  in the second_half  of March  or early  April  is celebrated  with devotion  and delight .
 :49 : Mysore  also celebrates  the national  festivals  of Independence  Day , the republic  day  and the birthday  of  Gandhiji . 
 :50 : Religious  festivals  like Makara Samkramana, Sri Ramanavami , Janmashthami, Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali, Christmas , EidulFitr, EidulAdha, etc.  are celebrated  in harmony .
 :51 : Mysore  is  located  139  kms  to the south_west  of Bangalore .
 :52 : The state  highway  that connects  the two  cities  could provide  a pleasant  ride  through rustic  country_side .
A bus  or car  ride  from Bangalore  would take  approximately  3  hours  for Mysore .
 :54 : Mysore  is  again connected  with many  trains  to Bangalore  and also  the prestigious  luxury  train , Shatabdi Express  which connects  it to Madras .
 :55 : Ooty also  known_as  Udagamandalam is  the “Queen  of  hill stations ” and the capital  of Nilgiris district .
 :56 : Ooty is  one of the most  popular  tourist  resorts  in India  
 :57 : Ooty is  a land  of picturesque  picnic  spots .
 :58 : Ooty  used  to be  a popular  summer  and weekend   getaway  for the Britishers  during the colonial  days .
 :59 : Ooty is  situated  at an altitude  of 2 ,240  meters  above sea_level .
 :60 : An added  attraction  for the tourists  to Udagamandalam is  the mountain  train  journey  on a ratchet  and pinion  track  which commences  from Kallar, near Mettupalayam and wends  its way  through many  hairraising  curves  and fearful  tunnels  and chugs  along  beside deep  ravines  full  of verdant  vegetation , gurgling  streams  and tea  gardens .
 :61 : Ooty still  woos  people  from all_over  India  as well as foreign  countries  right  through summer , and sometimes  in the winter  months  too .
 :62 : Ooty, this beautiful  botanical  paradise  was first  brought  to the public_eye  by John Sullivan, the Collector  of Coimbatore district  in 1819 .
 :63 : Rose_Garden :  situated  in the heart  of Ooty town , this garden  has been beautifully  laid_out  in terraces  with rose  tunnels , pergolas  and bowers  with rose .
 :64 : The Rose_garden  was set_up  in the year  1995  to commemorate  the 100 th   flower  show  of the Botanical_garden .
 :65 : Today , this Rose_garden  has  the largest  collection  of roses  in the country .
 :66 : Hybrid  tea_roses , miniature  roses ,  floribunda ,  ramblers , roses  of unusual  colors  like black  and green  are  some of the more_than  2 ,000  varieties  of roses  that will captivate  your senses .
 :67 : The Ooty Lake : this artificial  lake  was constructed  by John Sullivan, the first  collector  of Ooty.
 :68 : Originally  intended  to be  an irrigation   tank  Ooty Lake  was dredged  out during the years  1823 1825 .
 :69 : Ooty Lake  is  a very  popular  tourist  spot  in Ooty.
 :70 : You can go  boating  between 8  A.M.  and 6  P.M.  on all  days  in Ooty Lake .
 :71 : A wide  range  of boats  are  available  at the Boat_House  to suit  varied  tastes  and budgets .
 :72 : A  mini  garden  with an amusement_park  for children  and a toy  train  are  added  attractions  at Ooty Lake .
 :73 : The Botanical_Garden  was laid_out  in 1847  by the Marquis of Tweedale and is spread  over 55  acres .
 :74 : Lush  green  well  maintained  lawns , rare  tree  species , a 20  million  years  old  fossilized  tree , an Italian style  garden  bordering  a clear  pool , a vast  variety  of flowering  bushes  and plants  in myriad  hues , fern  house  with a vast  range  of ferns  and orchids , are  some of the many  highlights  of this garden .
 :75 : A flower  show along with an exhibition  of rare  plant  species  is held  every  year  in the month  of May  at the Botanical_Garden .
 :76 : The Botanical_Garden  is maintained  by the Horticulture  Department  of the Government  of Tamil_Nadu  and has  a very  wide  variety  of plants  that include  different  types  of roses , imported  shrubs , rare  flowering  plants , etc. .
 :77 : The “Summer  Festival ” is held  each  year  during the month  of May  in the 
Botanical_Garden  and is  an added  attraction  for tourists .
 :78 : The Flower  Show is  the  pride  of the festival 
 :79 : To the east  of the Botanical_Garden  is  the Toda mund (hill ).
At a height  of 2 ,623  metres , Dodabetta Peak  is  the highest  point  in the district .
 :81 : Situated  at about  10  km  from the Ooty town , Dodabetta Peak  is  one of the most  prominent  view_points  around Ooty.
 :82 : The top  of the Dodabetta peak  remains  covered  by mist  most of the time  but on a clear  day , you can have  a look  at the landscape  as  far  as the plains  of Coimbatore and the Mysore plateau .
 :83 : Also  for the nature  lover  are  the sprawling  20 ,000  acres  of Wenlock Downs  which was  once  the scene  of the famous  Udhagamandalam Hunt .
 :84 : Wenlock Downs  is  a region  of extensive  grasslands  with  sholas  or  gallery forests  of eucalyptus .
 :85 : The Gymkhana Club , the factory  of the Hindustan Photo Films Company , the Government  Sheep  Farm  and the Folg Course  are  all in Wenlock Downs .
 :86 : Wenlock Downs  is  about  8  km . from Ooty on the Gudalur Road .
 :87 : Pykara Falls  is  situated  about  21  kms  on the Ooty Mysore Road . 
Pykara boasts  of well  protected  fenced   Sholas , Toda  settlements ,  undistributed  grassy  meadows  and also  a good  wildlife  habitat .
 :91 :  :88 : The Pykara Dam , the Pykara falls  and the reservoir  attracts  many  tourists .
 :89 : A visit  to the dam  is  a must  for the breathtaking  scenery  that it has  to offer .
 :90 : Avalanche is  located  at a distance  of 28  kms  from Ooty.
 :91 : A beautiful  lake  surrounded  by a thick   shola , where even  sunlight  cannot penetrate  and abundant  with a wide  variety  of avifauna  is  a nature  lover  paradise .
 :92 : The Avalanche valley  is  a nice  place  for splendid  walks  and fishing  and it is  around  24  km  from Ooty town .
 :93 : Upper Bhavani is  about  10  kms  from Korakundah and about  20  kms  from Avalanche.
 :94 : Upper Bhavani is  a naturalist  paradise .
 :95 : Kotagiri is  31  kms.  from Udhagamandalam and the climate  of Kotagiri is  very  salubrious  which is  6503  feet  above sea_level .
 :96 : Kotagiri is shielded  by the Doddabetta ranges  which receive  much of its rain  from north_west  monsoon .
 :97 : One can enjoy  a pleasure  ride  on road  flanked  by green  tea  beds  on either side .
 :98 : A pretty  hill  town , Coonoor is  located  amidst tea  gardens .
 :99 : The Sims Park , established  here  in 1874 , has  fine  lawns  and a collection  of rare  plants  and trees  picturesquely  located  along a steep  slope .
 :100 : Scenic  waterfalls  – Law's Falls  and St. Catherine Falls  and fine  vantage_points  with breathtaking  views  and amusing  names  like Lamb's Rock, Dolphin's Nose and Lady Canning's Seat are  popular  picnic  spots .
