In Kumarakom the monsoon  are early  June  to mid  August , November  to March  considered  the best  months .
Kerla is known  for its panoramic  backwater  stretches , lush  green  paddy_fields , highlands  and beaches ,
The major  backwater  stretches  is in Kottayam district , where a network  of rivers  and canals  empty  into the great  expanse  of water  called  the Vembanad Lake . 
Located  at Kumarakom 16  km  from Kottayam town , the Vembanad Lake , an enchanting  picnic  spot  and fast  developing  backwater  tourism  destination , provide  boating , fishing  and sight_seeing  experiences  that are truly  exhilarating .
Kumarakom slumbers  on the banks  of the famous  Vembanad Lake .
The  Vembanad Lake  with its majestic  canals , streams  and distributaries  along its banks  weave  an intricate  and enchantingly  beautiful  web .
The gorgeous  green  of the fringed  palms  ripple  in the blue  waters  and blend  into wavelets .
Located  on the banks  of the  Vembanad Lake , the bird_sanctuary  is spread  across 14  acres .
The Kumarakom Birds_Sanctuary , an ornithologist ’s paradise  is a favorite  haunt  of migratory  birds  like the Siberian  stork , egret , darter , heron  and teal . 
The main  attraction  are local  birds  like the waterfowl , cuckoo , owl , egret , heron  and the water  duck ,   as well as   the migratory  Siberian  cranes . Parrots , teal , larks , flycatchers ,   wood beetle  , and other  birds  are seen  here  during their respective  migratory  seasons .
Houseboats  and motorboats  are available  on hire  for bird  watching  cruises  on the lake .
The best  time  to bird_watch  is between June  and August .
To watch  migratory  birds , November  to February  is the best  time .
Pay  a visit  to the picturesque  Aruvikkuzhi Waterfalls  Located  18  km  from Kottayam town , 2  km  down  a mud  lane  from Kumarakom is this beautiful  picnic  spot  where streams  tinkle  as they make  their way  through the landscape  and waters  roar  as they  cascade_down  the mountains  from a height  of 100  ft .
 
Pathiramanal (sands of midnight), an enchanting  island  on the lake , can be accessed  by boat  from Kumarakom.
This 10  acre  island  on the backwaters  is home  to many  rare  varieties  of migratory  birds  from different  parts  of the world .
According  to mythology  a young  Brahmin  dived  into the Vembanad Lake  to perform  his evening  ablutions  and the water_  made way for the land  to rise  from below.
The island  can be accessed  only  by boat .
A cruise  along the Vembanad Lake  is the best  way  to experience  the sanctuary .
Kottayam is an ancient  town  famous  for its churches , especially  the 700  years old  churches , the Cheria palli (`small  church `) with exceptionally  lovely  paintings  over the altar  and the Valia palli (`big  church `)   perched   on a picturesque  hillock  over a small  cluster  of houses .
In the St. Mary’s Church  Kuravilangad built  in 355  AD  there is an old  bell  which bears  a hitherto  undeciphered  inscription 
The   mortal   remains  of the blessed  Alphonsa and the Blessed  Father  Chavara are entombed  at the St. Mary’s Church  at Bharananganam and the St. Joseph’s Monastery  Church  at Mannanam respectively .
Thousands  gather  at these holy  shrines  during festive  occasions .
Pala town  and Kanjirappally, nourished  by the Meenachil and Manimala rivers  respectively  are centers  of rubber  plantations .
The Ettumanoor Shiva  Temple  12  km  north  of town  has exceptionally  beautiful  wall_paintings  and sculptures  inside the temple .
In the heart  of Kottayam town  is the much  venerated  Thirunakkara Mahadeva temple .
50  km  from Kottayam, Aranmula is the site  of the splendid  Onam festival boat  races , usually  in early  September .
These races  unlike  the more  sporting  Nehru  Trophy  race  at Alappuzha in August  are essentially  religious , based  on a temple  festival.
Caparisoned  elephants  with beaded  umbrellas , processions  of decorated  floats , and highly  ornate  boats  make this a lovely  event  to witness .
Aranmula is also  the centre  of bell_metal  mirror  crafts .
The most  exciting  feature  of the festival however , are the   snake boat   races  held  at several  places  on the   palm  . 
Payippad Jelotsavam is held  in memory  of the Prathista ceremony  of Haripad Subramanya temple  and therefore  has a religious  significance .
  Snake boat    processions  are taken  out  on the first  two  days  and competitive  boat  race  takes_place  on the third  day . 
Ponadu Chootu Padayani is the annual  festival  at the ancient  Bhagavathy Temple  in Meenachil Taluk.
Bunch es of dry  palm  fronds , (chootu) are lit  and carried  in procession  around the temple  before the performances .
Kumarakom in Kerla, South  India  is just  a few  miles  from the nearest  city , Kottayam.
Kottayam   links   you to all  major  cities  in Kerala and India  with numerous  trains  plying  this route  daily .
Being set in the high  ranges  of the Western    Ghats   in Kerala, Periyar is spread  in a tropical  forest  area , a mixture of deciduous ,   semi  evergreen  and characterized  by tall  trees , and a closed  canopy . 
The Periyar National_Park  and Tiger  Reserve  have a picturesque  lake in the heart  of the sanctuary .
Formed  with the building  of a dam  in 1895 , this reservoir  meanders  around the contours  of the wooded  hills , providing  a perennial  source  of water  for the local  wildlife .
You may even  get a glimpse  of the tiger  during this season .
A summer  palace  of the former  Maharaja  of Travancore, set  along the lake , is a hotel  and a fine  place  to stay .
Spice  garden  and plantation  estates  surround  the national_park .
On your tour  to Periyar you can see  the rich  bird  life  including  the   Giant Hornbill  , Cormorant , Darter , Osprey , and Rackettailed   Drongo  .
The Indian_python  and king_cobra  are among the reptilian  fauna .
Periyar has a few  Nilgiri   Tahr  , good  numbers  of which may also  be seen  on a day  excursion  to nearby  Eravikulam National_Park  near Munnar.
The main  attractions  on Periyar Travel  include  Kumily, a plantation  town  closely  associated  with Thekkady.
Kumily is situated  on the outskirts  of the Periyar Sanctuary .
It is an important  shopping_center  and spice  trade  center . The main  bus_station  and most  of the medium  range  accommodation  in the Periyar region  is in Kumily.
Another  important  place  of visit  is Murikkady which is a panorama  of cardamom , coffee  and pepper  plantations .
Pandikuzhi is one of the popular  picnic  spots  of Periyar, situated  between Chellarkovil and the Tamil_Nadu  State  border .
The best  season  to visit  Periyar wildlife  sanctuary  is from the months  of October  and June . 
Situated  just  4 kms  from Periyar, Kumily is a growing  town  where tourism  is fast  catching_up  just  like the spice  trade ,  the major  occupation   of this small  town .
The town  is also  well  equipped  with the excellent  hotels  and resorts  for accommodation .
Periyar and Kumily are the most  convenient  points from which visitors  can easily  explore  Kerala’s beautiful    Cardamom Hills  .
Guide  will approach  you with offers  of trips  via jeep  or taxi  to the hills  and if you can get a group  together , these trips  work_out  as a good  travel  value .
Boat  cruises  make  the best  option  to check  out the wilds  of Periyar Sanctuary .
Today  the Periyar lake  presents  an excellent  boating  spot  for tourism .
Although it is unusual  to see many  animals  from the boats , still you spot  a family  of Elephants , Wild_Boar , and Sambar  Deer  by the water ’s edge .
The upper  deck  is best  for wild_life  viewing  when taking  a boat  cruise , but better turn_up  half  an hour  early  to get the best  seat .
The best  way  to explore   Periyar is by boat , you also  have the option  of spending  time  atop  watchtowers .
Trekking  is an option  open  only  to the serious  naturalist .
A walk  into the forest  with them is an experience  into itself, as you come  to learn  about their customs , ethnicity  and legends .
Situated  in the hills  of the Western    Ghats  , the  Periyar region  is a forest  rich area  inhabited  by a large  population  of mammals . 
Periyar National_Park  in Kerala covers  an area  of about  5 ,500 hectares  of land .
The main  attraction  of  Periyar National_Park   is the Periyar Lake , formed  by the construction  of a dam  on the Periyar River  in 1895 . 
While on wildlife  tour  to the Periyar National_Park  one can easily  spot  large  herds  of Indian  Elephant  and the Nilgiri Langur .
The forest  area  is a tropical  region , a mixture  of deciduous ,    semi   evergreen  and evergreen  `shoals`.
Over 200  varieties  of birds  and 100  types  of butterflies  can be seen  in  Periyar National_Park .
The rich  bird  life  at the  Periyar National_Park  includes  the Giant hornbill, Cormorant , Darter , Osprey  and Rackettailed Drongo.
Other  animals  that can be seen  in  Periyar National_Park  are Gaur , Wild  pigs , Sambar , Barking_Deer , Mouse_Deer , Dole or Indian  Wild_Dog  and very  rarely , a Tiger .
Forest  rest_houses Periyar House, Aranya Niwas, etc. situated  in the park ’s tourist  complex  area  offer  good  accommodation  facilities .
The Lake  Palace  at Eddapaliyam, which was once  the royal  residence  of the Maharaja  of Travancore, and   Spice Village   are the two  other  better  options  for accommodation  in the area .
Apart  from these, there are many  other  rest_houses  where accommodation  is available  to suit  every  budget .
The  park  has 35  species  including  the Wild  Elephant , Tiger , Panther , Wild_Dog , Gaur , Sambar ,   Giant Squirrel  ,   LionTailed Macaque  , Civet , Leopard , Nilgiri Tahr and Nilgiri Langur  etc.
At the periyar Sanctuary  you can find  reptiles  like King_cobra , Viper , Krait , a number  of   nonpisonous   Snakes , bicoloured  frogs , Tortoise  and Crocodiles .
In Avifauna  you can_find  265  species_including  the great Indian Hornbill, Peafowl , Brahminy kite and blackWinged Kite .
Kumily, the nearest  town  from   Periyar National_Park  is well  served  by both  state  and private  buses  from Kottayam, Ernakulam and Madurai in Tamil_Nadu .
If you wish  to travel  by air  the nearest  airports  from Periyar are at Kochi (Kochin) or Madurai in Tamil_Nadu .
God ’s own  country  with its psychedelic  sunsets  complete with palm_trees  swaying  to whatever  music  the wind   chooses  to play , the wafting  aroma s of the land  of coffee , spices  and coconuts , the bastion  of communism , a literate  people  whose friendliness  is only surpassed   by their curiosity  for more.
A place  that fiercely  retains  and respects  the ancient  traditions  while viewing  the modern  with tolerance  and invitation  Thiruvananthapuram or Trivandrum is Kerala incarnate .
There is beauty  and intelligence , the exotic  and the mundane ; there are Ayurvedic massages  that elicit  equal  amounts  of pain  and pleasure , beaches  and lagoons  with the best  part  being the preservation  of it all the way Nature  meant  it to be.
Trivandrum is also  a bustling  city , where the business  of life  is carried_out  like it is around the world , interspersed  with everyday  visit  to the nearby  temple  or mosque .
Myth  has it that the place  derives  its name  from it being the city  of Anantha, the sacred  serpent  of Vishnu .
History  has it that  Thiruvananthapuram had once  been the port_of_call   for Romans  and Jews , Arabs  and Christians .
Believable , considering  that Thiruvananthapuram remains  one of the biggest  centres  for sea bound  harbour .
Pleasantly  tropical  throughout  the year , Trivandrum’s proximity  to the sea  makes for weather  that has its variations .
Other than the monsoon  between May  and October , which are long  and heavy , summer  temperature  goes_up  to 32 °C  while winters  are a pleasant  29 °C .
Best  time  to visit   Thiruvananthapuram are, if you love  the rains , anytime and if you don’t September  to May .
Government_Art  Museum  has much  to impress  the visitors  with. Built  in an exquisite  blend  of Kerala, Mugal, Chinese  and Italian  style  of architecture , the museum  is also  known_as  the Napier Museum  after the erstwhile  Governor_General  of Madras  John Napier.
This 19 th  century  building   boasts  of a unique  natural  airconditioning  system  and the displays  include  exquisite  bronzes , ancient  ornaments  and costumes , ivory  carvings  and musical_instruments , and a whole  temple  chariot .
Puttan Malika Palace  Museum  is built  by Maharaja  Swathi Thirunal Balrama Verma of  Travancore, an accomplished  poet  and musician , the traditional  Travancore style  musician  is made better  with its exquisite  woodcarvings .
There is a priceless  art_collection  among other  exhibits  and the palace  also  hosts  an annual  classical_music  festival  between 27 th  January  and 3 rd  February .
 
Located  in the museum  compound  is this Sree Chitra Art_Gallery  featuring  an eclectic  collection  of works by Roerich and Raja Ravi Verma.
Sree Chitra Art_Gallery  has of_course  the only  among the many  other  paintings  from the Mughal, Rajput, Bengal  and Tanjore schools  of art .
In Sree Chitra Art_Gallery  there is also  a fabulous  collection  of oriental  art  from the far_East  and Bali . 
The zoological_Garden  with a setting  that includes  woodlands  and beautiful  lakes ; this is arguably  one of Asia ’s best  laid_out  zoos .
Whether it is love  for the animals  or just  a need  for a good  day  out , Zoological_Gardens  is an excellent  place  to visit .
A   must see   is the Indian  School  of Martial_Arts  (ISMA), which continues  to preserve  and impart  training  in the 5 ,000 year old  martial_art  of KeralaKalarippayattu.
Established  in 1983 , the Indian  School_ of Martial_Arts  is in Vazhuthacaud in the heart  of the city .
