The Fort  of Khimsar has  a lot  of diversity  in its architecture .
 :2 : Prince  Karamasi originally  built  the fort : the fort  was originally  built  as a protection  of the village  from foreign  or neighboring  invasions .
 :3 : The walls , turrets , and stables  were built  around  16 th  century  AD  only  for the purpose  of war .
 :4 : By the middle  of the 18 th  century , the royal_family  moved  into the fort  when a new  zenana or ladies ' residence  was added  to the existing  construction .
 :5 : Thakur Onkar Singh, 17 th  direct  descendant  of Prince  Karamsi, the current  owner  and chief , added  a regal  wing  in the 1940 's for himself.
 :6 : Later  the fort  was converted  into a heritage  hotel  and ranks  amongst the best  heritage  hotels  of India .
 :7 : Jodhpur, 80  km  from Khimsar, is  the largest  city  in the entire  Marwar region .
 :8 : Jodhpur is  one of the most  famous  tourist  places  in Rajasthan.
 :9 : Important  tourist  places  in the city  are  the Umaid Bhawan Palace , Mahendragarh Fort , Jaswant Thada and Mandore Gardens .
 :10 : Osian is  27  km  from Khimsar and was  a wellknown  trading  center  between the 8 th  and the 12 th  centuries .
 :11 : The most  celebrated  temples  of Osian are  the Surya  or Sun  Temple  and the Sachiya Mata Temple .
 :12 : Nagaur is  43  km  from Khimsar: it is  famous  for the cattle  fair  that is held  every  year  in the month  of January .
 :13 : The  historicity  of the Nagaur city  can be traced  back  to the 4 th  century  AD .
 :14 : There is  a huge  fort , which has  beautiful  buildings  including  lavishly  built  palaces , mosques , temples , baolis or reservoirs , 
water_systems , fountains , open  terraces  and pleasure  gardens  of the Moghul  times .
 :16 : The nearest  airport  to Khimsar is  at Jodhpur, which is  80  km  away ; there are  daily  flights  from Jodhpur to Delhi , Mumbai , Udaipur and Jaipur.
 :17 : Built  by Rana Kumbha in mid  15 th  century , Kumbhalgarh is  the second  most  important  bastion  of Mewar, after Chittaurgarh.
 :18 : Covering  an area  of 12   sq km , this fort  fell  only  once  to the army  of Akbar and that too because the water_supply  of the fort  was contaminated  by the enemy  forces .
 :19 : The fort  lies  1 ,100  meters  above sea_level  and enclosed  within its fortified  ramparts  are  palaces , temples , fields , water  sources  and farms  fully  selfcontained  to withstand  a long  siege .
 :20 : Kumbhalgarh provides  an excellent  view  of the countryside  where many  fierce  battles  were fought ; it also  has  its significance  of being  the birth_place  of Maharana Pratap. 
 :21 : Like the rest  of Rajasthan, Kumbhalgarh experiences  really  hot  summers  while winters  are  a bit  colder  with temperatures  hovering  between 11   25  degrees_Celsius .
 :22 : Perched  atop  the Aravallis, the Kumbhalgarh Fort  is  the second  principal  fortress  after Chittorgarh.
 :23 : Built  by Maharana Kumbha in the 15 th  century , the fort  extends  over 12  km  and encloses  many  temples , gardens  and palaces .
 :24 : Renovated  in the 19 th  century  the Kumbhalgarh Fort  is  accessible  only  by jeep  from Kelwara through the seven  gates .
 :25 : Haldighati is  the place  where the famous  battle  between Rana Pratap and the massive  forces  of the Moghul  Emperor  Akbar was fought  in 1576  AD .
 :26 : Kumbhalgarh Wildlife  Sanctuary  supports  a rich  wildlife  such as the panther , sloth_bear , wild_boar , scientifically  bred  crocodiles  and the four  horned  antelope .
 :27 : In Kumbhalgarh Wildlife  Sanctuary  the most  famous  attractions  are  the flamingoes , cormorants , spoonbills  and egrets  which can be spotted  during winters .
 :28 : Muchhal Mahavira temple  is  situated  about  5  km  from Ghanerao in the Kumbhalgarh sanctuary .
 :29 : The distinctive  feature  of the Muchhal Mahavira temple  is  the statue  of  Lord  Mahavira with a moustache . 
 :30 : On the way  to Kumbhalgarh lies  the magnificent  dam   the Rajsamand Lake .
 :31 : The royal  lake  was built  in 1660  AD  by Rana Raj Singh: from here  one can have  a spectacular  view  of the sunset  with beautiful  'torans' or arches  and 'chhatris' adorning  the embankment .
 :32 : The lake  has  a rest_house  of the Irrigation  Department  on the embankment  below : the rest_house  has  a beautifully  laid_out  garden  interspersed  with exquisite  sculptures  excavated  from the ruins  nearby .
 :33 : Celebration  of the Gher Ghoomer festival  before the Chamunda Devi Temple  has been  a tradition  of the local  tribes  for the last  six  centuries .
 :34 : Colorful  crowds  from all  the surrounding  villages  congregate  at this place  to celebrate  the festival  with much  enthusiasm .
 :35 : One can reach  Kumbhalgarh by road  from Udaipur (84  km ) and Ranakpur which is  18  km  from Kumbhalgarh.
 :36 : Many  Rajasthan Roadways  passenger  and deluxe  buses  pass_through  Kumbhalgarh from Ajmer, Pushkar, Jodhpur and Ajmer.
 :37 : The nearest  railhead  is  in Ratlam (Madhya Pradesh) which is  80  km  from Kumbhalgarh and is  connected  with all  the major  cities  of the country .
 :38 : Mount  Abu was described  by someone  in the 1930 s as "a sort  of Shimla of Rajputana", a small  colonial   hill station  set , surprisingly , in the deserts  of Rajasthan. 
 :39 : Once  the tranquil  hilltop  retreat  of meditating  rishis, Mount  Abu was considered  to be  a holy  spot , inhabited  by no less than 330  million  different  gods  and goddesses .
 :40 : Then  in the early  1800 s Mount  Abu was developed  into a  hill station  where British  officials  from the hot , dusty  plains  of Rajasthan could seek  refuge  during the summer  months , among the eucalyptus  forests  and oleanders . 
 :41 : Charming  English  country  cottages  were built  around the Nakki Lake , and as time  passed  it became  a British  enclave   the official  summer  capital , where the Chief  Commissioner  for Rajputana would move  with his entourage  for two  months  each  year , from his administrative  capital  in Ajmer.
 :42 : As a result , most of the Rajput maharajas  followed_suit , building  palaces  for themselves here , and each  summer  Mount  Abu saw  a giddy  social  whirl , with cricket , golf  and dancing  at the Rajputana Club   and much  political  intrigue  at the British   Residency .
 :43 : This was  where the maharajas  did  all  their secret   wheeling and dealing  with the Chief  Commissioner   as it was  much  more  discreet  here  than to visit  him publicly  at his administrative  capital  in Ajmer.
 :44 : Today , while the surrounding  hills , with their waterfalls  and bamboo  and eucalyptus  groves  are  still  extremely  charming , Mount  Abu itself has become  an overcrowded  and gaudy  little  town .
 :45 : If you can imagine  an Indian  version  of Las_Vegas  and  Disney World  rolled_into_one , this would probably  be  Mount  Abu.
 :46 : Mount  Abu's bazaars  perhaps  are  fascinating  as a kind  of "living  museum  of contemporary  Indian  kitsch ".
 :47 : The temples  of Dilwara, of_course , simply  have to be seen , but, in_addition , some of the old  palaces  at Mount  Abu make  interesting  viewing , like the Bikaner Palace   where the redoubtable  Maharaja  Ganga Singh of Bikaner used_to  come  each  year , with a retinue  of 400  people .
 :48 : The state  of  Maharashtra  is  one of the largest  in India .
 :49 : Most of the state  stands  on the high  Deccan plateau  which stretches  east  some  800  km . from the Western   Ghats .
 :50 : Historically  this was  the main  centre  for the Maratha  Empire , which defied  the Moghuls  for so  long , and which, under the fearless  rule  of Shivaji, carved  out a large  part  of central  India  as its domain .
 :51 : In   Maharashtra  many  inland  and coastal  forts  are  a  legacy  of Shivaji and, to a lesser  extent , the Portuguese .
 :52 : Visit  the BibikaMaqbara, built  by Aurangazeb as a tomb  for his wife , an imitation  of the Taj_Mahal , a Himroo factory  where beautiful  cotton  and silk  fabrics  are produced , Panchakki  a watermill  within which there is  a tomb  of a muslim  saint .
 :53 : Ajanta caves  are  106  kms  from Aurangabad and date_back  to the 2 nd  century  BC .
 :54 : The 30  rock  hewn  caves  are  adorned  with Buddhist  sculpture  and the frescoes  portray  in epic  form  the religious  and secular  life  through eight  centuries . 
 :55 : Ellora caves  encompass  34  rocks  cut  shrines  representing  Buddhist , Hindu  and Jain  art . 
 :56 : Mumbai  international  airport  is  at Sahar (30  kms ) & domestic  airport  is  at Santacruz (26  kms ). 
 :57 : Most of the international  airlines , Indian  Airlines , & many  other  private  airlines  touch  Mumbai  & connect  Mumbai  with the major  cities  of India  and  abroad . 
 :58 : Mumbai  is  the headquarters  for both , western  and central  railways  and regular  train  services  connect  Mumbai  with all  the major  towns  & cities  in India . 
 :59 : Mumbai  is connected  by good  motor able road  to Pune, Nasik, Mahabaleswar, Shirdi, Aurangabad, Vadodara, Bangalore , Chennai , Delhi , and Calcutta .
 :60 : Damania Shipping  Pvt. Ltd. operates  a regular  catamaran  service  between Mumbai , Ratnagiri and Goa . 
 :61 : Journey  time  between Mumbai  and Goa  is  approximately  8  hours . 
 :62 : The city  that Moghul  emperor  Aurangzeb built  in the dusk  of his empire  is  Aurangabad, the city  that is  the base  to the marvels  of man   the Ajanta and Ellora caves . 
 :63 : Situated  in  Maharashtra , Aurangabad today  is  a thriving  industrial  metropolis  and apart from being  the jumpoff  point  for  Maharashtra  most  celebrated  tourist  attraction , it also  merits  as one of the cleanest  cities  in the country .
 :64 : With a lot  to offer  the avid  tourist  including  incredible  Deccan  Moghul  architecture , the most  pleasant  feature  of Aurangabad is  its inhabitants .
 :65 : Retaining  the charms  and mannerisms  of the Nizams, they are  courteous , polite  and extremely  helpful .
 :66 : If the Ajanta and Ellora caves  figure  in your travel  plans , as they should,  make it a point  to spend  a couple  of days  in Aurangabad and you will not  be disappointed .
 :67 : You could also  visit  Aurangabad between October  and March , when the weather  is  pleasant .
 :68 : Modelled  on the Taj_Mahal , Aurangabad's  Moghul  tomb  garden  was built  by Prince  Azam Khan in memory  of his mother , Begum  Rabia Daurani.
 :69 : Purwar Museum , a wonderful  personal  collection , is housed  in a lovely  haveli and is  the work  of a retired  doctor  Mr. Purwar.
 :70 : Small  and not  given  to the excesses  that other  museums  are  given  to, the exhibits  here  include  a 500 year old  chain_mail  suit , an 800 year old  Paithani sari  and a copy  of the Koran  hand  painted  by Aurangzeb.
 :71 : About  107  kms  from the city  of Aurangabad, the rock  cut  caves  of Ajanta nestle  in a panoramic  gorge , in the form  of a gigantic  horseshoe .
 :72 : Among the finest  examples  of some of the earliest  Buddhist  architecture , cave  paintings  and sculptures , these caves  comprise  Chaitya Halls , or shrines  dedicated  to  Lord  Buddha  and Viharas or monasteries  used  by Buddhist  monks  for meditation  and the study  of Buddhist  teachings .
 :73 : The paintings  that adorn  the walls  and ceilings  of the caves  depict  incidents  from the life  of Buddha  and various  Buddhist  divinities .
 :74 : Among the more  interesting  paintings  are  the Jakata tales , illustrating  diverse  stories  relating  to the previous  incarnations  of the Buddha  as Bodhisattva , a saintly  being  who is  destined  to become  Buddha .
 :75 : Occupied  for almost  700  years  the caves  of Ajanta seem  to have been  abandoned  rather  abruptly .
 :76 : Ajanta has been designated  as a World  Heritage  Site , to be  preserved  as an artistic   legacy  that will come  to inspire  and enrich  the lives  of 
generations  to come .
 :78 : The viewpoint  from where John Smith first  glimpsed  the caves  provides  a magnificent  sight  of the UShaped  gorge  and its scenic  surroundings .
 :79 : The cave  temples  and monasteries  at Ellora, excavated  out of the vertical  face  of an escarpment  are  26  kms  north  of Aurangabad.
 :80 : Extending  in a linear  arrangement , the 34  caves  contain  Buddhist  Chaityas, or halls  of worship , and Viharas, or monasteries , Hindu  and Jain  temples .
 :81 : Spanning  a period  of about  600  years  between the 5 th  and the 11 th  century  A.D. , the earliest  excavation  here  is  of the Dhumar Lena (cave  29 ).
 :82 : The most  imposing  excavation  is , without doubt  that of the magnificent  Kailasa Temple  (cave  16 ), which is  the single  largest  monolithic  structure  in the world .
 :83 : Ellora, known_as  Verul in ancient  times , has continuously  attracted  pilgrims  through the centuries .
 :84 : Aurangabad seems  to have  more_than  its share  of secondary  monuments  and sights .
 :85 : 3  kms  north  of the city , the caves  have been carved  out of a steep  spur  of the Sahyadri Range  and a great  view  of the city , serenity  and a piece  of history  are  what you get  to take_back  from here .
 :86 : The Aurangabad caves  are  Buddhist  and are  divided  into two  groups  by the archaeological  survey  of India  as the western  and eastern  caves .
 :87 : 13  km  away  from Aurangabad lies  one of the country  most  impressive  and majestic  forts , Daulatabad, commanding  the view  from atop  a pyramid shaped  hilltop .
 :88 : It is  an unusually  large  fortress  and is surrounded  by huge , imposing  grey , granite  walls  and has  a central , slender  pink  minaret  called  the Chandminar  a victory  tower  built  in 1435  and is  right  on top  of the hill , originally  known_as  Devagiri or the Hill  of the Gods .
 :89 : In 1294 , the Delhi  Sultans stormed  Daulatabad and looted  its wealth ,  paving the way  for the eccentric   Muslim  ruler  Mohammed bin Tughlaq, who took_over  the fort  in 1327 .
 :90 : Mohammed bin Tughlaq renamed  it Daulatabad, the City  of Fortune  and made  it his southern  military_operations  base .
 :91 : Khuldabad is  a walled  city  also  known_as  Rauza and famed  as the 'Heavenly  Abode '
 :92 : The courtyard  of the Alamgir Dargah (shrine ) is  also  the burial  spot  of the last  great  Moghul  emperor , Aurangzeb.
 :93 : Aurangzeb chose  Khuldabad as his final  resting  place  because the mausoleum  of Sayeed Zainuddin, a Muslim  holy man lies  next_door .
 :94 : The Robe  of the Prophet , which is considered  an important  relic  lies  here  and is revealed  to the public  once  a year , on the 12 th  day  of the Islamic  month  of RabiulAwwal.
 :95 : Grishneshwar Mandir: Rani  Ahilyabai Holkar is said  to have built  this Shiva  temple  in the 18 th  century  in a small  village  of Grishneshwar, which lies  west  of the caves .
 :96 : There are  no  rules  banning  non Hindus  from the temple  and they are allowed  to join  the queue  for a glimpse  of the deity . 
 :97 : An ancient  town  that lies  56  km  south  of Aurangabad, Paithan is renowned  for its famous  Paithani silk  saris .
 :98 : The beautiful  6 yard  Paithani sari  is woven  with pure  silk  yarn  and gold  thread  (drawn  from pure  gold ).
 :99 : It is  a matter  of pride  that this 2000 year old  art  of weaving  continues , with families  passing_on  their creative  skills  to younger  generations .
 :100 : A heavy  brocade  Paithani takes  at_least  6  months  to complete  and costs over Rs 50 ,000 , while an ordinary  Paithani sari  takes  about  a month  to complete  and costs  between Rs 8 ,000  and Rs 15 ,000 .
 :101 : The State  weaving  centre  has  lovely  Paithani  wall pieces  as_well .
 :102 : In the third  week  of March  every  year , Aurangabad dons  the mantle  of a host  and gears_up  for an Ellora Festival  of music  and dance .
