The Sanjay Gandhi Botanical_garden  also  has an artificial  lake  where boating  can be enjoyed . 
Patna has an airport  of its own  with all  the major  airlines  having air  services  to_and_fro  from the place .
Patna is well  connected  by super  fast  and passenger_trains  with the major  cities  of the country .
Lush  green  forests , meandering  rivers , large  waterfronts , cascading waterfalls , the gentle  gurgle  of streams , the distant  hills , a gorgeous  kaleidoscope  of flora  and fauna  that is the serene  and sylvan  land  of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nature  at her best. 
The two  main  dialects  here are Gujarati  and Hindi .
This quiet  magical  land  of 70  villages  sandwiched  between the states  of Maharashtra  and Gujarat , near Daman, was under  the Portuguese , till it got  freedom  on August  2 , 1954 .
The people  took_over  the administration  under  the system of self__government . Bhili, Gujarati  and Hindi_ are the main  languages  spoken  by the 'adivasi' population .
As an area  it is confined  to less  than 500  sq.km, covered  with tall  trees  and rivers .
The hospitable  and unselfish  native  tribal  has their own  customs , dances  and rituals  here which are quite  fascinating . 
The territory  enjoys a very  pleasant  climate  from November  to March , which is actually  the best  time  for a visit .
The summer  temperature  does not go very  high , due to  its proximity  to the sea , and the nights  are really  pleasant .
Hirwa Van, Piparia Silvassa is a  beautiful  garden  with roaring  waterfalls , misty  cascades , rustic  stone_walls , twin  arches , tiny  kiosks  and springy  lawns  interspersed  with islands  of flowers  is truely a visitors  delight . 
Only  5  kms  from the capital  town  Silvassa is one of the most  beautiful  Vanganga Lake  and Island  Garden , Dadra where songs  of more_than  25  Hindi  feature_films  have been picturised, proves  its point .
You can see  and enjoy  the rustic  wooden  bridges , sea  of flowers , jogging  paths , thatched  huts , and paddle_boats . 
Drive  20  kms  away  from Silvassa on a road  lined  with tall  trees in midst  of forest , it is Khanvel.
The beautiful  verdant  land  surrounded  by lush  green  hills  beckons  you with its rolling  meadows , terraced  gardens , cottages  in native  style  and river  Sakartod flowing  past it.
Another  20  kms  drive  from Khanvel is Dudhni where the large  waterfront  of river  Damanganga provides  breathtaking  view  of the water  spread  of Madhuban Dam .
Silvassa is 11  km  from Bhilad on the Mumbai   Ahmedabad Highway  and good  motor able roads  connect  Silvassa with Mumbai  (168  km ), Daman (44  km ), Surat (129  km), Vadodara (269  km ).
Local  buses , taxis  and rickshaws are available  for local  journeys  in Silvassa and up to Vapi and Bhilad.
Situated  on the southern  borders  of Gujarat , is the Union Territory of Daman and Diu.
In 1961 , it was made an integral  part of India  and was a part of the erstwhile  Union Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu.
After Goa  was given  statehood in 1987 , Daman and Diu was made a separate  Union Territory.
Nearest  railhead  form Daman and Diu is Delwada (9  kms ) connected  via Veraval by Metre guage line . 
Daman and Diu is well  connected  by road  via Una (30  km ), to Ahmedabad (495  km ), Bhavnagar (225  km ), Mumbai  (930  km ), Daman (763  km ), Sasangir (128  km ), Rajkot (261  km ), Somnath (87  km ), Veraval, Kodinar and Mumbai .
Sprawling  on the banks  of the river  Yamuna, Delhi , the capital  of India , typifies  the soul  of the country .
In time the city  conceals  within its bosom  annals  of civilizations  that flourished  for more_than  three thousand years 
Indraprastha, according_to  legends , the city  founded  by the Pandavas in the times  of the epic  Mahabharata  (circa 1500  B.C .), was located  near  the old  fort  that stands  on a large  mound  overlooking  the river .
Today , the city  is a curious  blend  of the modern  and traditional , skyscrapers , beautiful  gardens  and wide  treelined  avenues  perpetuate  the Mughal passion  of landscaping and architectural  excellence .
More important , however , Delhi  blends  within its folds the great  cultural  variety  of India ; an unceasing  range  of activity , a million  ways  of saying  'you are welcome '.
Dilli Haat is the first  ever  permanent  fair  for crafts , food  and cultural  activities  in India .
The craftsmen  from all_over  the country  and the cultural  happenings  provide a panoramic view of the richness and diversity of Indian handicrafts and artifacts.
Dilli Haat also  houses  food  stalls  serving  a variety  of traditional  food  from different  parts  of India .
Built  by the British , Connaught Place is quite  close  to the New_Delhi  railway_station  and a unique  shopping  spot .
Palika Bazaar  another  famous  underground  shopping_centre  is located in Delhi.
Built  by QutubudDin Aibek in 1199 , the Qutub Minar minaret  stands  tall  at an impressive  height  of 73  meters .
Humayun's Tomb  is built  in the 16 th  century  as a memorial  to the Mughal emperor . 
India Gate is a majestic  arch , 42  meter  high , is a war  memorial  in honor  of the Indian  soldiers  who died  during the First_World_War .
The eternal  flame  (Amar Jawan  Jyoti) burns  beneath  the arch  to honor  the memory  of the unknown  soldiers .
Lakshminarayan Temple  is a modern  Hindu  Temple  built  in 1938 , is dedicated  to Lord Vishnu  and his consort Laxmi.
President  House , this palace  like  building  was built  by the British  with a blend  of Mughal and Western  culture .
National  Museum  has an excellent  collection  of bronzes , terra_cotta  sculptures , paintings  and costumes .
Jantar Mantar, the Unique  observatory  was built  by the Rajput  King  Sawai Jai Singh II in 1724 .
Raj Ghat is the serene  memorial  of Mahatma_Gandhi  on the banks  of Yamuna.
Shanti Vana is the cremation  site  of Jawaharlal_Nehru .
Jama Masjid  was built  as the mosque  of Shahjahan's capital  city  in 1658  and is the biggest  in India .
The Old  Fort  was built  by Sher Shah in the 16 th  Century .
Bahai  Temple  is situated  atop  the Kalka hill ; this distinctive  lotus shaped  marvel  in marble  is surrounded  by a landscaped  garden .
Teen Murti House  is the erstwhile  residence  of Jawaharlal_Nehru , India  first  Prime Minister, is now  a museum .
Tughlaqabad Fort  was built  in the early  14 th  century ; this stark  and powerful  fortress  palace  was built  by the first  Tuglaq King  and has 13  gates .
Near  the Tughlaqabad Fort  there is Suraj Kund, famous  for its hot water  well .
Delhi  is the main  gateway  city  for northern  India  with a modern  airport  and all major  international  air carriers operate  direct  services  to Delhi from various  centers  in the world .
Delhi is the base  for Indian  Airlines  operations  in North  India  and the airline connects  the city  with all  major  centers  of tourist  and business  interest  in the country .
Indira_Gandhi  international  Airport  is divided  into two  wings , International  Terminal  (20  km  from downtown  Connaught Place) and Domestic  Terminal  (15  km  from City  Centre ).
Taxi  and coach  transfer  is available  from both  International  and Domestic  Arrivals .
Prepaid  Taxi  (a service  with journey  fare  paid  at the booking  counter ), airconditioned  and non airconditioned coach  counters  are located  immediately  outside  the customs  hall  in International  Terminal  and outside  Baggage_Claim  area  in Domestic  Arrivals .
Airport  Coach  (nonairconditioned) is operated  by Delhi Transport  Corporation  (via Connaught Place and Railway_Stations ) to Inter_State  Bus  Terminus  (ISBT), Kashmiri Gate and by Ex Servicemen's Air link.
Delhi offers  a variety  of public  transport . Yellow topped  taxis  and autorickshaws (seats  three ) are available  every_where .
DTC operates  an extensive  network  of city  bus  service  covering  all  areas  of the city  and suburbs ; the city  also operates  pollution free  battery  operated buses  between Connaught Place and Chandni Chowk and aIong Chandni Chowk. 
Restaurants  in Delhi offer  a variety  of Cuisines   Continental , Chinese , Thai , Japanese , North  Indian , South  Indian , Mughlai to name  a few .
Most  of the International  Cuisines  are offered  in the special  restaurants  and outside  the hotels  too , there are many  a_fine  restaurant  and fast_food  outlets . 
The_former  Portuguese  enclave  of Goa , one  of_India  gems , has enjoyed  a prominent  place  in the travelers`  lexicon  for many  years .
The_main  reason  for this is its magnificent  palm fringed  beaches  and renowned  'travelers ' scene '.
It is a heady  blend  of serenity  and excitement  down  a 10  km  coastline  studded  with some  of the world  most  beautiful  beaches   Calangute, Colva, Baga, Dona Paula, Bogmalo.
Visit  Calangute Beach  extending  along the Arabian_Sea  in an inward  arch  of about 7  kms  which is very  popular  with the visitors .
Visit  Old  Goa   the Basilica  of Bom Jesus  built  in the 16 th  century , wherein, is enshrined  in an ornate  silver  casket , the body  of St.Francis Xavier, the most  popular  and famous  of all  churches  in Goa .
Also  visit  Se Cathedral , the biggest  in Goa , Church  of St. Francis of Assisi, St. Cajetan Church , built  in the style  of St. Peter's Basilica  in Rome , Church  of Lady  of Rosary  and Nunnery  of St. Monica.
Visit  the Temple  of Shri Mangesh, a beautiful  temple  dedicated  to Lord Shiva , located  on a hillock  at Priol  in Ponda Taluka.
Though small , the temple  has an air  of distinct  elegance  and its lofty  white  tower  is a landmark  of the countryside .
The west  coast  state  of Gujarat  is not  one  of India  busiest  tourist  destinations  although it is quite  easy  to slot  Gujarat  in between Mumbai  and the cities of Rajasthan.
Gujarat  has a long  varied  history  and a great  number  of interesting  places  to visit .
Along the south  coast  are the sites  where many of the great events in Lord Krishna  life  took_place .
Gujarat  had close  ties  with the life  of the father  of modern  India , Mahatma_Gandhi .
Some  of the most  important  sites  in Gujarat  are Jain  Temples  at Palitana, and at Girnar Hill , near  Junagarh.
Gujarat  is one  of the India  wealthier  states  with a number  of important  industries , particularly  textiles  and electronics  and has the dubious  distinction  of having  the largest  petrochemical  complex  in the country .
Apart  from its Jain  Temples  Gujarat  major  attraction  include  the last  Asian  lions , in the Gir Forest  and the fascinating  IndoSaracenic architecture  of Ahmedabad.
Gandhinagar is the capital  city  of Gujarat  and it is famous  for the Akshardham temple  which has been built  in the memory  of Lord Swaminarayan. 
Constructed  by Sultan  QutubudDin, Kankaria Lake  is a popular  recreational  spot  for people  of Ahmedabad.
The Kankaria Lake  is surrounded  by landscaped  garden , terraced slopes , zoo , aquarium  and balvatika.
Teen Darwaja's triple arched  gateway  was  originally  meant  to serve  as the royal  entrance  to the Maidan Shahi or Royal  Square . 
White  marbled  Hathee Singh's temple  is dedicated  to the 15 th  Jain  apostle Dharamnath and it is built  in pure  white  marble  and embellished  with intricate  carving . 
Sarkhej comprises  one  of the most  elegant  architectural  complexes  of Ahmedabad.
Ahmedabad has a large  number  of mosques  but the most  famous  is the Sidi Saiyad Mosque  built  in 1571  AD , which is acclaimed  for its splendid  filigree  screen , framed  in the ten  semicircular  windows .
Dada Hari Vava, a stepwell, manifests  a unique  architectural  feature  of Gujarat . Stepwells were built  to provide  travelers  with water  and cool  resting place . 
Jumma Masjid  is  considered  to_be  one  of the most  beautiful  mosques  in western  India .
Jumma Masjid ,_built  in 1423  AD , is  outstanding  for its grand  scale , superb  proportions  and exquisite  workmanship .
Rani Sipri Mosque  was  built  in 1514  by a queen  of Mehmud Shah Begda.
The shaking Minarets  of Sidi Bashir's Mosque  have generated  tremendous  curiosity .
The Gandhi  Ashram  along the Sabarmati river , was once  Gandhi  ji's nerve_centre  for the Indian  freedom  movement .
The Gandhi  Memorial  Centre , Library  and much  more  can be seen at the Ashram.
Porbandar is  famous  as the birthplace  of Mahatma_Gandhi .
Kirti Mandir, where Mahatma_Gandhi  was born , today , houses  a photo  exhibition  on the life  and times  of the Mahatma, a_library , a prayer  hall  are other  memorabilia .
Rajkot is mainly  known  for the handicrafts , bead  and mirror  work , tie and dye fabric  (Bandhani), silk  embroidery  and applique  work .
In Lothal excavation s have brought  to light  an ancient  port_ complete  with dockyard  measuring  218  x 37  meters  connected  to sea  through river  Bhagava.
Streets  laid_out  in chessboard  pattern , dividing  the town  into many  block s, houses  with bathrooms  and underground  drainage_system  are_identical  to the ones found  at Mohenjodaro and various  art s and artifacts  are the interesting  features  of Lothal. 
97  kms  from Ahmedabad, Modhera has one  of the most  magnificent  monuments  of Gujarat .
The Modhera Temple , built  by the Solanki kings  in 1025  AD  was dedicated  to Surya   the Sun_God .
The_temple  was constructed  in such a manner  that the rising  sun  at the equinoxes  shines  straight  into the shrine  and illuminates  the image_ of Surya .
The legendary  shore  temple  of Somnath is  one_ of the most  sacred  Shiva  shrines  in India .
According  to legend , Somnath is  as old  as Creation , built  by the Moon  God  himself.
The present  temple  known_as  the Maha Meru Prasad was rebuilt  about 25  years  ago  on the location  of the original  shrine  in accordance with ancient  plans .
