Dumboor is  a picturesque  lake  110  km  from Agartala which offers  a motor  or country  boat  ride  in a vast  body_of_water  dotted  with 48  islands .
57  km  from Agartala, 25  km  from Neermahal, Udaipur  has  several  temples  of  Lord  Vishnu , lakes  and ruins  of an old  palace .
4  km  away  is , built  in Bengali  hut  style  architecture  in 1501 , a `Shakti peeth' (power  of the female  goddess ).
The state  of Tripura is  supposed  to have been named  after this temple .
It is said  that the right  foot  of Sati (Shiva   consort ) fell  here  and a `peeth was constructed .
It looks  very_much  like a tortoise  and it is  called  'Kurma peeth ('Kurma'   tortoise ).
One of the idols  inside the sanctum_sanctorum  is  small  and would be taken  with the kings  on their hunts .
On Diwali, the festival  of lights   in October /November  every  year , a large  fair  is held  here .
Agartala:  Agartala, the capital  city  of Tripura, lies  barely  2  km  from the Bangladesh  border  and 3  hours  by road  from Dacca .
The city  has  beautiful  palaces , gardens , hills , temples  and lakes , which fascinate  visitors  with their perfection .
The red  government  buildings  are  a study  in contrast  against the remarkably  white  old  British  buildings  still  in existence , notably  the Maharajas  Palace .
Agartala is struggling  to keep_pace  with its essential  services , vastly  outstripped  by an increasing  population .
Sightseeing  in the Agartala: The Ujjayanta Palace stands  on the banks  of a small  lake  surrounded  by huge   Moghul  gardens .
Built  in 1901 , the architecture  is  an interesting  mix  of  Mughal  and European  influences .
The tiled  floors , curved  wooden  ceiling , beautifully  crafted  doors  and specially  created  pools  add  to the ambience  of grandeur .
If you go  to the front  gate  between 3  pm  and 4  pm , you may get  an entry  pass .
The temples  of Ummaneshwar and Jagannath  in the grounds  of this palace  are  open  to all.
The Governor  of Tripura now  lives  in a palace  that was built  in 1917  and named  the "Kunjaban Palace " by Birendra Krishna Manikya, a km  away  from the Ujjayanta Palace .
The Maharaja  himself designed  the palace  and Nobel_Laureate  Rabindranath_Tagore  was  an occasional  guest .
The southern  side  of the palace  is  open  to public  and has been named  "Rabindra Kanan".
The gardens  adjoining  the palace  are  delightful .
Also  worth  seeing  are  the ethnological  displays  in the State  Museum  on HGB Road , Agartala.
The temple  dedicated  to 14  gods  and goddesses , temple , church  and the(Buddha Vihar) with Burmese  statues  of the Buddha  are  the other  places  worth  a visit .
Travel  Documents : All  visitors  to India  are required  to carry  a passport  valid  at_least  for the next  6  months .
Visa  is  mandatory  except in the following  cases : Bhutanese  and Nepalese  visitors  who are staying  for less_than  3  months , nationals  from the Maldives , if they are staying  for a maximum  of 90  days . 
Transit  passengers  who have  a  followon  ticket  within 72  hours  of arrival  as long as they are not  going  to leave  the airport .
Special  restrictions  apply  to Pakistani  and Afghan  nationals .
Tripura is  presently  open  to tourists  and special  permits  are  no_longer  required .
Around & About By Air : Agra  is  well  connected  by air , rail  and roads .
There are  domestic  flights  from Delhi , Khajuraho and Varanasi four  times  a week .
By Train : The city  has  six  railway_stations  of which Agra  Cantonment  is  the largest .
Trains  from Delhi , Gwalior, Jhansi and the south  arrive  here ; it is  closest  to most  good  hotels  and has  a tourist  
information  counter .
Many  tourists  coming  from Delhi  take  the Shatabdi Express , which arrives  at 9  am  in the morning  and returns  at 8 .15  at night , allowing  for a one  day  trip .
By road  Agra  is  connected  to Mathura (56  kms ), Delhi  (203  kms ), Gwalior (118  kms ), Jaipur (237  kms ) and several  other  major  cities .
There are   UP  State  Road  Transport  (UPSRTC) as well as private  buses  plying  to and from Agra .
The main  bus  terminus  is  the Idgah  bus stand , close  to the Agra  Cantonment  station .
One can also  drive  from Delhi , either by a rented  car  or one's own .
The road  is  in very  good  condition  at the moment .
The wise  thing  to do  is  to hire  a car  with a driver  if you want  to get_to  the many  tourist  spots  within and outside the city .
There are  local  buses  but you may not  want  to risk  these and for the rest , public  transportation  is  really  quite  inadequate .
Cycle_rickshaws  and  auto rickshaws  are  easily  available  all_over  the city  and are  a good  local  way  to get_around : be  prepared  to bargain  with the drivers  or you may be taken  literally  for a ride !.
There are  two  tourist  offices , one of UP tourism  near Clarks Shiraz Hotel  (64  Taj Road , Ph (0562 ) 360517 ) and the other of the Government  of India  (191  The Mall, Ph (0562 ) 363377 ).
The government  of India  office  has  more  information  on other  destinations  
as_well .
There is  also  a tourist  information  counter  at the Agra  Cantonment  station .
The best  time  to visit  Agra  is  between November  and March .
The temperatures  are  moderate  and several  festivals  coincide  with this period .
UP tourism  organizes  the Taj Mahotsav every  year  between 18 th  and 27 th  February .
It is  an arts  and crafts  fair  held  at the Shilpgram, the crafts  village  near the Taj_Mahal .
The Sharadotsav in October , is  a cultural  show  with the country  leading  dancers  and musicians  performing  at historical  locations  in the Agra  Fort  and Fatehpur Sikri (39  kms ).
There are  several  other  fairs  like the Kailash Fair  (12  kms ) in August / September  and the monthlong  Bateshwar Fair  (65  kms ) in November .
 :52 : There are  some  wonderful  deluxe  hotels  in Agra  and a lot  of them vie  to give  you a view  of the Taj_Mahal .
They are  mostly  located  in the quieter  Cantonment  area  and the new  Tourist  Complex .
Most of the inexpensive   budget  accommodation  is  in Taj Ganj.
If you are  ready  for the crowds  and noise , they can be  a great  money  saver .
There are  also  some  camp_sites  and paying  guest  accommodations  available .
A camera  is  a must  to capture  on film  one of the wonders  of the world ! 
Bring  light  cotton  clothes , comfortable  sandals  and a hat  in the summer  and in winter , some  light  woolen  clothes ; evenings  get  a bit  chilly .
 :59 : Most of the good  restaurants  are  in the Sadar Bazaar  and Cantonment  areas .
The inexpensive  eating_places  are  in Taj Gang, around the Taj_Mahal .
The  five star  hotels  have  good  restaurants , which serve  authentic  Mughlai cuisine .
Besides  the local  fare , Chinese  and south  Indian  restaurants  are  also  widespread .
Shopping  can be  both an exciting  as well as taxing  experience  in Agra .
There is  a lot  one can pick_up  in handicrafts , but beware  of the touts  who lead  you into shops  that overcharge  and pay  a hefty  commission .
It is  best  to go  by yourself and bargain  hard .
The main  shopping  area  is  the Sadar Bazaar , besides  Kinari Bazar , Gwalior Road , Mahatma Gandhi Road  and Pratap Pura.
The  Taj  complex  also  has  emporia  of several  state  governments .
You should not  let  your credit_card  out_of_sight , and avoid  having goods  shipped  later , since many  people  have been cheated  on them. 
You will not  be  able  to resist  the marble  inlay  work  and other  local  handicrafts .
 :68 : Agra  is  a big  exporter  of leather  and leather  products  to the west  and you get  to pick_up  some  real  bargains  here .
Legend  has it that Akbar, who had  no  son , went  to the Sufi  saint  Sheikh Salim Chishti to seek  his blessings .
Soon_enough , prince  Jahangir was  born  to his Hindu  wife  Jodha Bai.
As an expression  of gratitude , Akbar shifted  his capital  to the new  city  which was built  between 1569  and 1585 . 
The location  of Fatehpur Sikri was  also  appropriate  for discussions  and deliberations  that the Emperor  had  with religious  leaders , statesmen , writers  and philosophers .
However , just  15  years  after it was established , the court  had to be moved  out of Fatehpur Sikri because of acute  shortage  of water .
Built  in Akbar's favorite  style  in red  sandstone , this 8   square kilometer  complex  houses  several  buildings , which are  an amalgamation  of Hindu  and Islamic  architecture .
Akbar was  an astute  ruler , who encouraged  interaction  with his Hindu  subjects  and neighboring  chieftains .
He married  the Hindu  princess  of Jaipur, and her brother  Raja  Man Singh became  one of his trusted  lieutenants .
This synthesis  of society  and culture  is  evident  in the buildings  of the fort .
The DiwaniAam is  where the public  could have  an audience  with the emperor .
The centerpiece  of this hall  is  the carved  stone  pillar , which supports  a circular  platform  connected  to the edges  by four  bridges .
The emperor  sat  in the centre  and discussions  and debates  were held  here .
In front of this hall  is  a courtyard  with a Pachisi  court  (a game  like Ludo  played  with dice ) where the emperor  played  using  slave  girls  as live  pieces .
It is said  that the great  Hindustani  classical  musician  Mian Tansen once  sang  Raag Deepak (song  of fire ) here  and with the intensity  of his music  set  the place  alight .
He then  sang  the monsoon  raga, Megh Malhar invoking  the rains  and so  doused  the flames .
He was reputed  to have  a collection  of some  50 ,000  manuscripts , which would be read_out  to Akbar who was  himself illiterate , but the manuscripts  were  very  precious  for him and he carried  them around  wherever he went .
Akbar's sleeping  chambers , the Khwabgah (house  of dreams ) had  water  channels  to cool  the air .
The five storeyed  palace  is  one of the prominent  buildings  in the fort .
It tapers  to a single  room  at the top , and is supported  by columns  with various  designs .
From the top , you get  a commanding  view  of the entire  fort  complex , and were used  by Akbar and his consorts .
Another  building , the (palace  of winds ) allowed  the ladies  of the harem  to catch  the cool  evening  breeze .
The Jami Masjid  was  the first  building  to be constructed  within the fort .
The main  entrance  to the mosque  is  through the Buland Darwaza (the grand  gateway ), which was built  in 1576 : it is  54  meters  high  and commemorates  Akbars victorious  return  from his campaign  in Gujarat .
The Dargah of the Sufi  saint , who is believed  to have blessed  Akbar with a son , is  also  within the fort .
A white  marble  building  with intricately  carved  lattice  screens  and engravings  in mother_of_pearl , lapis_lazuli  and topaz .
Even  today , childless  women  come  to the Dargah or tomb  to tie  strings  on the jalis (screens ) as prayer  to the saint .
In the month  of Ramadan  the tomb  celebrates  Urs, when groups  of kawwali singers  perform  devotional  Sufi  songs  at the tomb .
The choice  of accommodation  in Fatehpur Sikri is  limited .
The tourist  complex  (Phone_number  05619  2490 ) offers  clean  and affordable  accommodation  with reasonable  food .
The Archaeological  Survey  of India  also  has  a  guest house  with spacious  well  furnished  rooms  at a very  low  rate .
From Fatehpur Sikri there are  regular  buses  plying  to the Bharatpur bird_sanctuary , about  25  kms  away .
Also  known_as  the Keoladeo Ghana National_Park , it is  a marshy  area , which was originally  built  as a hunting  retreat  of the kings  of Bharatpur.
Now  declared  a protected  national_park , one can see  over 300  species  of migratory  birds , including  the endangered  Siberian  cranes  coming  to nest  in winter .
There is  a tourist  lodge  within the park  and early  morning  boat  rides  into the marsh  are  a treat  for bird  lovers .
