 1 : Mysore is  the former  capital  of the erstwhile  Wodeyars of the state  of Mysore .
2 : Mysore  is also  known_as  the City  of Palaces .
3 : Abode  of untold  grandeur  and glory , where the rich  heritage  of the Wodeyars is carefully  preserved  to this day  in its magnificent  palaces , gardens , broad  shady  avenues  and sacred  temples .
4 : There is an old_world  charm  about the city  that reaches_out  and leaves  no one untouched .
5 : Mysore , or Mahishur as it was called  in the past , traces  its history  back  to the mythical  past , when Goddess  Chamundeshwari of Chamundi Hills  killed  the wicked  buffalo  headed  demon , Mahishasura.
6 : Mysore  also  has associations  with the Mahabharata  and King  Ashoka of 3 rd  century  BC .
7 : During the Wodeyar rule , Mysore  reached  the zenith  of its glory  as a fabled  center  of oriental  splendor .
8 : Hyder Ali and his valiant  son  Tippu Sultan are notable  figures  in the history  of the land .
9 : They expanded  the Mysore  kingdom  on an unprecedented  scale  and by their resistance  against the British , became personages  of world  fame .
10 : Tippu was a great  scholar  and lover  of literature .
11 : His artistic  pursuits  were also  many  and he made rich  gifts  to the Hindu  temples .
12 : Tippu Sultan "Tiger  of Karnataka " was killed  in 1799  A.D. , and the Mysore  throne  was handed  back  to the Wodeyar's.
13 : The whole of Karnataka  came under the control  of the British  in the beginning  of the 19 th  century  and the new  state  was named  as new  Mysore  and the Maharaja  of Mysore  was appointed  Governor  by Independent  India .
14 : Mysore   the former capital  of the erstwhile  Wodeyars and also  of the State  of Mysore  lost  its prominence  to Bangalore .
15 : The recorded  history  of Mysore  City , which was a principal  town  of a district , goes back to 10 th  century  AD .
16 : After witnessing  many  vicissitudes  and remaining  for centuries  the headquarters  of a small  principality , Mysore , for well  nigh  two  centuries  lost out to Srirangapatna as a city  of any  consequence .
17 : It was Raja  Wodeyar who, in 1610 , set_up  headquarters  at Srirangapatna after asserting  his independence  from the Vijayanagar viceroy .
18 : The centre  of gravity  shifted back  to Mysore  with the court  starting  to function  once again  and the population  emigrating  to it from Srirangapatna.
19 : It was administered  under the British  Commission  from 1831  to 1881  after a spell  of governance  under the great  Dewan Purnaiah, who survived  the HyderTippu era .
20 : The city  really  started  growing  into its present  form  after the Rendition of 1881  when the throne  was restored  to Chamarajendra Wodeyar, the scion  of the royal  family , who ruled  the State  for 13  years  till his death  in 1894 .
21 : Chamarajendra Wodeyar and later  the Maharani  Regent  commissioned  a number  of important  buildings , besides putting  some  order  in the City  by now  visible  growth .
22 : But the credit  for its blossoming  into the city  that we are familiar  with goes to the long  spell  of rule  of Krishnaraja Wodeyar, the Saint  King  and prince  among builders , the Silver_Jubilee  of whose reign  was celebrated  in 1927 .
23 : The foundation  of the City  spacious  and excellently  planned  layouts  had already  been laid  during the administration  of Dewans Seshadri Iyer and M. Visveswaraya.
24 : With the Silver_Jubilee  Spirit  of the celebrations  of Krishnaraja Wodeyar's rule , the city  invested  with much  of its remarkable  aesthetics   new  parks  and boulevards  and some noteworthy  additions  to its architectural  scene .
25 : Sir  Mirza Ismail (Dewan from 1926  to 1941 ), a great  aesthete  himself, did much  to enhance  the City  aesthetics .
 :26 : Mysore  in spite of being ruled  by different  rulers  and kingdoms  for ages  still retains  its old  charm  and stately  beauty .
 :27 : There are many 'nottobemissed' sights  in Mysore  like the magnificent  Mysore  Palace , Sri Jayachamarajendra Art_Gallery , St. Philomena's Church , and KRS Brindavan Gardens .
 :28 : With founding  of Mysore  dynasty  in 1399  AD  by Yaduraya, Mysore  has seen  24  rulers .
 :29 : Till emergence  of Raja Wodeyar in 1578  AD , the Mysore  Kingdom  was a small  feudatory  Kingdom  under the Vijayanagar Empire .
 :30 : With the fall  of Vijayanagar Empire in 1565  AD , the Wodeyars inherited  and perpetuated  the traditions  of Vijayanagar Empire .
 :31 : Raja  Wodeyar ascended  the throne  in 1610  AD , in Srirangapatna the erstwhile  capital  and inaugurated  the Dashara Festivities  which are still  celebrated  with all grandeur .
 :32 : The most celebrated  Kings  after Raja  Wodeyar who contributed  to the cultural  heritage  of Mysore  are Ranadhira Kanthirava Narasaraja Wodeyar (1638  1659  AD ), Chikka Devaraja Wodeyar (1673  1704  AD ), Mummadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar (III ) (1799   1868  AD ), Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar (IV ) (1902  1940  AD ) and Jayachamarajendra Wodeyar from 1940  till the establishment  of the Republic_of_India .
 :33 : Between 1761  and 1799 , Hyder Ali along with his son  Tippu Sultan ruled  the State .
 :34 : With the defeat  of Tippu Sultan by the British  at Srirangapatna in 1799 , five  years  old  Prince  Krishnaraja Wodeyar (III ) was installed  the King  of Mysore  on the throne  of his ancestors .
 :35 : Wodeyars contributed  a great  deal  towards arts  and culture . Palaces , temples , the Mysore  school  of traditional  painting , women  schools  and colleges  and music  maestros  bear_witness  to the liberal  grants  and patronage  of Mysore  kings .
 :36 : Mysore  was the only  highly  industrialized  and progressive  native  state  in India  in steel , silk , soaps  and hydroelectricity .
 :37 : The kingdom  was benefited  from visionaries  like Sir  Mirza Ismail and Sir  M. Visveswaraya who served  under the Wodeyars.
 :38 : Mysore  is the cultural  capital  of Karnataka .
 :39 : The palaces  which were built  for the kings  and their families  were not_only  for pleasure  but they are glowing  with artistic  beauty , hence  they attract  people  from all  the parts  of the world .
 :40 : Some of the palaces  have now  become attraction  for visitors , some of them are government  offices  and some are hotels , and university  office .
 :41 : Some of them are Mysore  Palace , Jaganmohan Palace , Jayalakshmi Vilasa, Lalitha Mahal etc.
 :42 : It has been written  in "Shrimanmaharaja's Vamshaavali" that kings  of Mysore  were living  in one  palace  in Mysore  in 14 th  Century .
 :43 : After this palace  was destroyed  by lightning . in AD  1638 , it was reconstructed  by "Ranadheera Kantheerava Narasaraja wodeyar".
 :44 : This is the oldest  accurate  information  available  regarding  the Mysore  palace .
 :45 : It is known  from history  that palaces  like "Soundarya Vilasa", "Naama Teertha" etc and 11  cannons  were placed  in the palaces  in different  places .
 :46 : It is said  that in 1793  in order to build  a new  city  called as "Nazarabad", Tippu Sultan demolished  all  the old  buildings  including  the palace  except temples .
 :47 : In 1799  during the throning_ ceremony  of the prince  due to unavailability  of the palace  the ceremony  took_place  in Nazarabad under a Pandal.
 :48 : For this reason  due to the requirement  of a palace , a new  palace  was built  in Hindu  architectural  style  during 1800 1803 .
 :49 : Because the palace  was built  in a very  small  duration  of 2  years  by the end  of 19 th  century , it was in a bad  condition  and some of the parts  started  crumbling .
 :50 : Also  in 1897  during the wedding_ceremony  of princess  Jayalakshmmanni most  of the parts  of the palace  were burnt_down  by fire .
 :51 : Hence  in order to bring  back the glory  of the Mysore  palace  the queen , then representative  of the king ’s family  thought_of  building  new  palace  which would be similar  to the old  palace.
 :52 : The construction  charge  was taken by B. P. Raghavulu Naidu who was Executive  engineer  in the Mysore  palace  division .
 :53 : He made elaborate  studies  on architecture  that had to be applied  for the new  palace  by visiting  Delhi, madras  and Calcutta  and made plans  for the new  palace .
 :54 : This is the magnificent  and a masterpiece  palace  which is standing  in front  of us and visited  by hundreds  of people  from all_over  the world  daily .
 :55 : The main  building  is built  of grey  marble  stone  and is three storied .
 :56 : On top  of this is a five  storied  domes  which are covered  with gold .
 :57 : It is 145  Ft  in height  from ground_level  to the top  of the dome .
 :58 : There are five  of the domes  (Kalash) and they were established  in 1914 .
 :59 : This palace  is built  around a place  called  "Thotti" which is a large  open  space  to the east  of round  floor  there is huge  elephant  door .
 :60 : To the south  there is huge  and beautiful  Kalyana Mantap where festivities  take_place .
 :61 : On the first  floor  facing  eastern  direction  there is "Durbar  Hall " or Court_yard .
 :62 : For conducting  personal  meetings  there is "Amba Vilas" on this floor .
 :63 : This beautiful  building  is 245  Ft  in length  and 156  Ft  in width .
 :64 : There are fire  extinguishing  machines  located  in all  parts  of the palace  in order to prevent  any fires .
 :65 : There are forts  on the western  side  of the palace  which is almost  in a square  shape  and has five  entrances  and is built  in indicerasenic style .
 :66 : To the east  there is a huge  main  entrance  called  "Jaya Maarthaanda", to the north  is "Jayarama" and "Balarama", to the south  is "Varaha" , to the west  is "Brahma Puri" and "Kari Kallu thotti" Main  gates .
 :67 : On Sundays , national  holidays  and during dashara Navarathri festival , the palace  is lit_up  with lights which is festival for eyes  and is an experience  of a life_time  in viewing  the palace  in full  lights at night !!.
 :68 : There are gardens  in front_ of the palace  where people  can sit  and enjoy  the beauty  of the palace .
 :69 : Let us see  the other palaces  that make  Mysore  "Palace  City ".
 :70 : This palace  is towards the western  part  of the famous  Mysore  palace  and at a walk able distance .
 :71 : Until the completion  of the main  palace  auditorium  in 1912  all  the annual  day  and Dashara festival  celebration  were taking_place  here . 
 :72 : There is beautiful  and artistic  mandap in front  of this palace .
 :73 : Wedding_ceremony  of "Naalvadi Krishnaraja Wodeya" and "Shri Kantheerava Narasimharaja Wodeyar" took_place  in this palace .
 :74 : This palace  was built  by "Krishnaraja Wodeyar the third  ".
 :75 : The crowning  ceremony  of "Krishnaraja Wodeyar the fourth " also  took_place  here  in 1902 .
 :76 : This place  was used  for staying  of royal  family  until the new  palace  was built  and it was used  for entertainment  afterwards .
 :77 : Now  this is a famous  art_gallery  which consists of paintings  by famous  Indian  painter  "Raja Ravivarma".
 :78 : The large  auditorium  is used  for major  cultural  events  in Mysore .
 :79 : This is now  the administrative  office  of University  of Mysore  (UOM) and folklore  museum .
 :80 : It was built  in 1901  by then  king  of mysore  "Chamaraja Wodeyar" for his elder  daughter .
 :81 : This palace  is to the western  side  of "Kukkara Halli Lake" and located  approximately 4  KM  from mysore  palace .
 :82 : This is second  in size , beauty  and famous  among the palaces .
 :83 : The foundation_stone  was laid  in November  18 , 1921  by "Krishnaraja Wodeyar the fourth ".
 :84 : This palace  gets its beauty  by the Chamundi hill  to its backside  and is located  towards east  of Mysore  city .
 :85 : The palace  is eye_catching  by its whiteness  which comes from the granite  stone  brought from Italy  for the construction .
 :86 : Now  this palace  is a five star hotel  and attracts  VIPs  and tourists  from foreign  countries  and rich  people .
 :87 : This palace  was built  in 1842  and used  as "Special  School " for young  princes .
 :88 : The palace  is built  in 36  acres  surrounded  by gardens .
 :89 : The specialty  of this palace  is that the facing  portions  of the palace  are made of soft iron .
 :90 : This building  looks  beautiful  and artistic .
 :91 : This palace  was a hotel  for a long_time  and currently  locked for visitors .
 :92 : Built  in 1880 , this palace  was school  for "Chamaraja Wodeyar", "Krishnaraja Wodeyar", and young  princes .
 :93 : This is also  called  as summer  palace .
 :94 : A swimming_pool  has been built  in a modern  style  and joining  to this palace  is the zoo_garden .
 :95 : This palace  was built  for the third  princess  during 1910 11  and is beautiful  to view .
 :96 : The dome  atop  the palace  adds  to the beauty  of the palace .
 :97 : This palace  is now  the famous  CFTRI (Central  Food  Technology  and Research  Institute ) and is in very  good  condition .
 :98 : The construction  started in 1902  and was completed  in 1932 ; it is built  in IndoGreek style  and encompasses  38  acres  of land .
 :99 : This palace  is located  next to "Karanji Kere" lake  on the way  to Lalithamahal palace .
 :100 : This palace  was a hotel  for some  time  and currently  this is crumbling  without any maintenance , visitors  are not allowed  to this palace .
