Ootacamund or Udagamandalam (the Tamil  version  of the original  name ) rightly  described  as "Queen  of  Hill Stations " by Pandit  Jawaharlal_Nehru , now  sprawls  over an area  of 36   sq km  with a number  of tall  buildings  cluttering  its hill  slopes .
It is  situated  at an altitude  of 2 ,240  meters  above sea_level .
Though  the march  of brick  and mortar  has 
laid  waste  its thick   sholas  which one saw  in a bygone  era , it still  woos  people  from all_over  India  as well as foreign  countries  right  through summer , and sometimes  in the winter  months  too .
An added  attraction  for the tourists  to Udagamandalam is  the mountain  train  journey  on a ratchet  and pinion  track  which commences  from Kallar, near Mettupalayam and wends  its way  through many  hairraising  curves  and fearful  tunnels  and chugs  along  beside deep  ravines  full  of verdant  vegetation , gurgling  streams  and tea  gardens .
The scenery , as it unfolds  during the trip , is  breathtaking , aweinspiring  and fantastic .
One can notice  a marvellous  change  in vegetation , as one goes  from Kallar to Coonoor.
At Kallar it is  tropical  and at Burliar the next  busstop  as one proceeds  from Mettupalayam it is  subtropical .
Near Coonoor, it is  humid  with pines , blue_gum  (Eucalyptus_globulus ) and cypress  trees .
As we go  from Ooty to Gudalur, the change  in vegetation  is  striking .
What a splendid  interaction  between climate  and vegetation !  
It is  therefore  very  appropriate  that Mount  Stuart called  the whole  road  leading  to Ooty from Mettupalayam, "One  long  botanical  debauch ."
The scenery  that unfolds  as one looks  out of the window  is  breathtaking 
This beautiful  botanical  paradise  was first  brought  to the public_eye  by John Sullivan, the Collector  of Coimbatore district  in 1819 .
But prior  to this in 1812 , the first  Englishmen  who were sent  up the Nilgiris by the Collector  of Coimbatore, were  Mr. Keys, Assistant  Revenue  Surveyor , and his assistant , McMohan.
They made  their way  via Dananayakan Kottai to Aracad and the existing  village  of Denad, and penetrated  as  far  as Kallatti, the lower  level  of North  Ooty, but never   set their eyes on  the beautiful  valley  in which Ooty lay .
The work  was executed  by McPherson in a period  of 2  years  starting  1821 .
This was  the only  route  to the Nilgiris from Coimbatore until 1832 , when the first  Coonoor Ghat road  was laid , thanks  to the then  Governor , S.R. Lushington, who got  the work  executed  by Lehardy and Capt. Murray.
The present  metalled  Ghat road  from Kallar to Coonoor, a distance  of 25  km  which has  14  hairpin_bends  and a gradient  of one  in 18  ft , which facilitated  carriage  traffic  from Madras  to Ooty, was mainly  constructed  by Colonel  G.V. Law in 1871 .
It is  gratifying  to note  that the cascade  of the Coonoor river  near Wenlock bridge  on the CoonoorMettupalayam road  named  after Law continues  to bear  the same  name .
The CoonoorMettupalayam road  was extended  to Udagamandalam, covering  a distance  of about  15  km .
 The KotagiriMettupalayam road  (about  34  km  long ) which was  8  ft  wide  to_begin_with , was widened  to 17  ft  in 1872 75  with a gradient  of one  in 17  by the District  Engineer , Major  Morant R.E. and handed_over  to the District  Board  in 1881 .
During the period  from 1819  to 1830 , John Sullivan's contribution  was , apart from laying  the route  to Ooty, that he built  the first  house  called  stone  house  in this place .
Further , at his own  expense , he conducted  experiments  on agricultural  and horticultural  crops  and in animal_husbandry  to find  the most  suitable  crops  and breeds  of milch  animals  for future  settlers .
Next to the magnificent  task  of laying  the road  to Ooty, the British  took_up , around  1880 , the stupendous  task  of connecting  Mettupalayam to Ooty by rail .
A Swiss  engineer , M. Riggenback and Major  Morant of Kotagiri road  fame  prepared  an estimate  of 1 ,32 ,000  pounds  (currency ) for laying  the rack_railway and  floated  a company  called  The Rigi Railway & Co Ltd.
The work  on the line  was started  in August  1891  by Lord  Wenlock, Governor  or Madras , but the company  was liquidated  in 1894 .
Later , a new  company  was formed  in 1894 , and the work  was completed  in 1899 .
The line  was worked  by Madras  Railway ,  to start with .
 :28 : St Stephen's Church  is  the oldest  church  in Ooty.
Though the Nilgiris formed  part  of Coimbatore district , it was  separated  into an independent  district  in 1868 .
 :30 : For a period  of 13  years  from 1830 , it remained  part  of Malabar district .
 :31 : This was  to prevent  tobacco  smuggling  from Coimbatore.
Udagamandalam, considered  a sanatorium  and hill  resort  by the Europeans , has come  to be  like any  other  district .
The devastation  was  so_much  that a ban  on fresh  construction  was belatedly  imposed  by the Government .
The Nilgiri range  which is  the junction  of the Eastern  and Western , was Neelagiri by its inhabitants  850  years  ago , because of the blue  haze  of the clouds  enveloping  its slopes .  Originally , it was inhabited  by Todas , Irulas, Kurumbas, Panias and Badagas .
Of these, the Todas , who are  vegetarians , tall  and fair , have dwindled  in number .
The Badagas , who speak  a mixture  of Kannada  and Tamil , are said  to have migrated  from Mysore  400  years  ago .
The Panias and Irulas are  confined  to Mudhumalai sanctuary .
 ::38 : Though the Badagas  were  essentially  agriculturists , they are  socially , educationally  and even  economically  advanced  now .
The present  population  of Ooty is  78 ,277  and comprises  of Todas , Badagas , Tamils , Keralites and Mysoreans.
The water_supply  for the city  is  from Parson's Valley .
 In order to  augment  its revenue , the Ooty municipality  has been permitted  to levy  a toll  fee  on all  vehicles  entering  the Nilgiris from Tamil_Nadu  and Karnataka .
This, along with parking  fees  levied  at the Botanical  Garden , the boathouse  and Doddabetta adds_up  to quite_a  sum .
Tourists  flock  to Ooty during the annual  flower  show , boat_races  and boat  pageantry  in May  and for participating  in horse_races  during the weekends  of the season .
Economically  speaking , Ooty can sustain  itself with income  from potato  and other  hilly  vegetables  and tea .
With the spurt  in tea  prices  in the world  market  in the 80 's, tea  has usurped  the place  of potato .
As the slopes  have been devoted  to tea , vegetables  have come  to be cultivated  in lowlying  areas  and swamps .
As the demand  for agricultural  and horticultural  crops  is  bound  to increase  in the years  to come , steps  should be taken  to rejuvenate  agriculture  and horticulture .
Since cut  flowers  are  in great  demand  in foreign  countries , floriculture  should find  a prominent  place  in schemes  to augment  the income  of cultivators .
The places  of tourist  importance  in Ooty are  the Avalanche, the Western  Catchment , the Government  Botanical_Garden , St Stephen's Church , Elk Hill , Doddabetta (2 ,592  meters  above sea_level ), Snowden peak  on the Kotagiri road  that commands  a view  of Mysore , the lake  (formed  in 1824  by Sullivan) and the boathouse , Wenlock Downs , Parson's Valley , Kalhatty Falls  and Glenmorgan.
The Mudhumalai sanctuary  lies  at a distance  of 36  km  from Ooty.
Of these, Avalanche, located  at a distance  of 28  km  from Ooty, is  a nature  lover  paradise .
It is  a lake  surrounded  by thick   sholas  which abound  in avifauna .
The Western  Catchment  is  about  20  km  from Parson's Valley , and it is  a rolling  grassy  down , interspersed  with temperate   sholas  in valleys  and depressions .
Glenmorgan lies  about  17  km  from Ooty and there is  a winch  of the Electricity  Board  to transport  staff  to the Singara power_house .
As the winch  glides  along the slopes , the sight  of thick   sholas  unravels  itself.
The Kundah hydroelectric  project  executed  in 1956  is  also  worth  a visit .
On_the_one_hand  it is  apparent  that the tree  has seen  much  better  years ; a 1905  photograph  captures  it standing  tall , robust  and bushy  before  what were  then  the Secretariat  offices .
On_the_other_hand , it has survived  the ravages  of time ; look  closer  and you will discover  that its branches  have  a tangled  beauty  and that its alternate  leaves  glow  softly  in the wintry  sun .
John Sullivan, the man  who founded  Ooty, planted  this oak  over 150  years  ago  in front of what was  then  his residence , Stone house .
Over the years , Stone house  was subsumed  in flurry  of construction  for the office  of the Secretariat .
And today , these offices  have become  the Government Arts  College  – a tale  of change  and continuity  that is  very_much  the story  of Ooty.
When you are caught  in the snarl  and disorder  that is  Commercial Street , are  suffocated  to settle  in the town  in a noisy  swarm , or are  looking  at the “modern ” boxlike  houses  that are strung_out  on the town  in a pattern  that resembles  terrace  cultivation , you cannot help  wondering  whether Sullivan’s Ooty has vanished  forever . 
If you are   armed  with a sketch  of an original  ground_plan  and elevation  of Stone house , you can identify  the exact  portions  of the old  residence    the very  first  European  house  in Ootacamund – that were incorporated  with the Secretariat  office  building .
If you walk  through  over the ground  and the beautifully  unkempt  cemetery  at St. Stephen's, which lies  on a small  outcrop  behind what must be  one of the country  prettiest  churches , you will find  the graves  of Sullivan’s wife , Henrietta, and his 16 year old daughter , Harriet.
The famous  Ooty Lake  – that serpentine  stretch  of water  that has deteriorated  into a sewer   was  Sullivan’s creation  too .
He dammed  a stream   in order to  collect  water  for the nearby  fields , but somehow  it never  developed  into the headwaters  of an irrigation  system .
Half  the lake  was  appropriated  and  filled in  for the racecourse , but the other  half  still  remains  one of the main  tourist  attractions  in the  hill station .
But as Reverend  Philip Mulley suggests , his real   legacy  goes  well  beyond  a building  that endures  here  or a crumbling  grave  that survives  there .
“His impact  is  evident  almost  everywhere ,” says  Mulley, who has keen  interest  in the history  and sociology  of the Nilgiris.
It was  Sullivan who revolutionized  agricultural  practice  in these mountains , thereby  changing  the face  of the local  economy .
He did  this not  merely  through the introduction  of tea  (which was commercialized  only  years  after his death ), but by freely  distributing  seed  for a large  assortment  of cereals , fruit  and vegetables .
He brought_in  European  varieties  of wheat  and barley  (which the Badagas  knew  as Sullivan ganji), vegetables  such as cabbage , radish  and turnip  and fruits  such as peach , apple  and strawberry .
It was  Sullivan who persuaded  the initially  skeptical  Directors  of the East_India_Company  to develop  the Nilgiris as a sanatorium  for sick  British  troops .
And it was  Sullivan again  who encouraged  the construction  of the early   Ghat  roads  up  into the hills .
Sullivan didn’t ‘discover ’ the Nilgiris, but he was  the first  to see  its potential  as a sanatorium  and he laid  the foundations  that changed  the social  and economic  face  of these hills .
Other  Europeans  had been  up  here  before . 
An enigmatic  Jesuit  priest , father  Fininicio, made  the first  expedition  in 1603 .
He made  the journey  up  from Calicut, but all  that remains  of his visit  to Todamala is  a small  fragment  that reveals  he tried  to converse  with the Badagas  about Christianity  and that he gave  “Toda  women  looking_glasses  and hanks  of thread , with which they were  very_much  pleased ”.
Two  centuries  later , after the British  had annexed  Mysore , there were  other  expeditions  by men  such as Buchanan, Mackenzie, Keys and MacMohan, some of them reaching  only  the lower  slopes .
It was  in 1818  that two  youthful  Assistant  Collectors  of Coimbatore, Whish and Kindersley, made_it  to the  Nilgiris plateau .
One  story  goes  that they may have been  on a shooting  expedition , another  that they were chasing  tobacco  smugglers .
The account  of their explorations , which were  of a place  that was cool  and teeming  with the game  and wildfowl , stoked  the interest  of the boss .
The letter  he wrote  from the “Neilgherry hills ” to Thomas Munro, who went_on  to become  Governor  of Madras , is  ecstatic .
It had gone  to ruins  over the years , being used ,  among other things , as a cowshed ; only  recently  was it restored  by the district  administration , thanks  to the efforts  of the environmental  forum , Save  Nilgiris Campaign , and the enthusiasm  of an energetic  Collector .
Two  years  ago , D. Venugopal of the Save  Nilgiris Campaign , which has been  at the forefront  of keeping  Sullivan’s memory  alive , organized  a trek  that retraced  the route  he took  up to the hills .
By 1822 , Sullivan had started  building  a stone  house  in what was  then  known_as  Wotokymond, acquiring  land  from the Todas  at one  rupee  an acre .
He would quickly  corner  huge  tracts_of_land , many  times  more_than  the other  entire  European  settlers  put_together .
All  the while , Sullivan was  pepping  his superiors  in Madras  with letters  about the unusually  temperate  and healthy  climate  in the Nilgiris and its suitability  as a sanatorium .
By 1828 , there were  some  25  European  houses , not_to_mention  churches  and the houses  of immigrants  from the plains .
This was  also  the year  that Ooty was made  a military  cantonment .
Sullivan's dream  of making  it a sanatorium  for British  troops  had been fulfilled , but the government ’s action  meant  that Ooty would no_longer  be  in his control  but in that of his rival  Major  William Kelso.
The only  surviving  photograph  (see  picture ) presents  a somewhat  portly  person , who seems  both  sad  and sullen .
We know , for_instance , that he was  extremely  well  disposed  towards the tribal  population  – an attitude  that brought  him into conflict  with senior  Government  officials .
He argued , as  early  as 1832 , that the “natives  should be entrusted  with a great  share  in the administration  of their own  affairs ”.
Remarkably , he also  advocated  the view  that the Todas  had  total  proprietary  rights  over the lands  in the Nilgiris plateau  and that they must receive  compensation  for any  land  acquired  from them. 
Considering  the times  he lived  in, Sullivan’s views  suggest  that he was  an extraordinarily  liberal  man .
H.B Grigg, in his A Manual  of the Nilgiri District  in the Madras Presidency (1880 ), describes  him as a “friend  of the native ”.
At the same  time , Sullivan laid  himself open  to charges  that he had used  his position  in government  to acquire  enormous  personal  wealth .
He retired  and left  for England  in 1841  and died  unsung  on January  16 , 1855  – exactly  150  years  to this day .
“Most  people  in Ooty do not  even  know  he existed ,” says  lawyer  and environmental  activist  B.J Krishnan.
“But the important  thing  for the future  of these hills  is  that we retain  the spirit  and energy  of Sullivan.”
The Save  Nilgiris Campaign  had planned  a procession  of  tribals  and a public  meeting  on January  16 , 2005  on the occasion  of his 150 th  death  anniversary .
