A small  charge  is made for a 35  minute  audio  tour , which includes  a visit  to the crypt 
 There has been  a church  or abbey  on this spot  since Saxon  times  and below the church  can be seen  a section  of a floor  from a Roman  house .
You can also  see  ashes  from Roman  London , which was burnt_down  in AD  61  by Boudicca.
 During the Great  Fire  of London  in 1666 , 
Samuel_Pepys  climbed  to the top  of the church  brick  tower  to watch  the progress .
At that time  it was still  called  Barking Abbey  although it was no_longer  a monastic  abbey .
 Bombing  in the Second_World_War  destroyed  much of the church  building ; although the brick  tower  survived  and is  today , the only  piece  of Cromwellian  church  architecture  you will find  left  standing  in the capital .
 This is  also  a jolly  good  place  to come  if you like  brass  rubbing !  
Location : Byward Street , London , EC3 R 5 BJ. 
 :9 : The Banqueting  House  is  the only  remaining  complete  building  of Whitehall Palace , the sovereign  principal  residence  from 1530  until 1698  when it was destroyed  by fire .
 Designed  by Inigo_Jones  for King  James_I  (1603 25 ) and completed  in 1622 , the Banqueting  House  was originally  built  for occasions  of state , plays  and masques .
 The Banqueting  House  later  became  the scene  of King  Charles_I  execution .
Today  the Banqueting  House  is  a popular  visitor  attraction  and one of the finest  banqueting  venues  in London , playing  host  to many  royal  and society  occasions .
 If you are thinking  of visiting  the Banqueting  House , why not purchase  a London Pass  which will admit  you to this and many  other  London  attractions  for a single  payment ; it also  includes  travel  by public_transport  within the London  area  on buses , tubes  and trains , zones  1   6 .
 For details  on the London Pass  and a list  of attractions  that it covers , click  here .
The Barbican is comprised  of businesses , exclusive  residential  flats , the Museum  of London  and the Barbican Arts  Centre .
 It is  probably  the ugliest  building  in London , although the new  British  Library  may be  another  contender  for the title .
To be  fair , some  parts  of the Barbican are  very  pleasantly  landscaped  with fountains  and plants , but (with the exception  of the roof  conservatory ) you are  never  far  away  from grey  1960 's concrete  slabs .
The buildings  are  connected  by a maze  of raised  multilevel  walkways .
Even  the  locals  get  lost , so allow  plenty  of time  to navigate .
Wherever you're going  in the Barbican, the best  plan  is  to enter  the centre  by the nearest  entrance .
Once  inside  all  locations  are  clearly  signposted , unlike  the street  outside , which is  very  pedestrian unfriendly .
 Around some of the concrete  corners  there are  unexpected  surprises , like a couple  of ancient  churches  that survived  the bulldozer , and even  sections  of the old  London  wall .
 Set  in the heart  of the Barbican is  the Barbican Arts  Centre , which boasts  an art_gallery , concert_hall , cinema  and two  theatres .
A charming  village  like  atmosphere  pervades  the streets  and lanes  of Barnes due in part  to the conspicuous  absence  of a tube  station .
Barnes has been described  as a place  populated  by country_folk  who can't quite  let_go  of London .
 Characterized  by beautiful  Georgian  houses  running_along  the bank  of the Thames  and surrounded  by the green  expanses  of Barnes Common , Putney Common  and the vast  acres  of Richmond Park , Barnes does indeed  seem  a world  away  from the hustle  and bustle  of London .
 The village  atmosphere  is further  enhanced  by the presence  of a village  pond  and village  green , both of which are overlooked  by the centuries  old  Sun Inn .
Just  behind the inn  sits  England  oldest  bowling_green .
The eighteenth  century  novelist  Henry_Fielding  lived  in one of the houses  overlooking  the pond  and Handel  is  known  to have composed  in the area .
 Every  Saturday  a farmer's_market  takes_place  by the pond  with local  produce  being sold  direct  from the producers ; here  you'll find  everything from home_baked  cakes  to the finest  cuts_of_beef  and freshest  vegetables .
Barnes High_Street  leads  from the pond  to the River_Thames  and is  filled  with small  grocers , green_grocers , bakers  and butchers .
 Most of the local  pubs  are owned  by Youngs, an excellent  family  run  brewer  based  in nearby  Wandsworth and are  well  worth  a visit .
Of particular  mention  is  the Bull's Head where you can listen  to live  jazz  (including  some world_class  acts ) every  single  day  of the week .
Otherwise try  Ye White Hart, a large  Edwardian  riverside  pub , perfect  for spending  a pleasant  summer  evening  on the terrace  caressing  your pint  while listening  to the lapping  of the Thames  and watching  the rowers  drift  by !  
The nearest  underground  (Tube ) station :  Barnes or Barnes Bridge mainlines.
This hideous  looking  building  (though a great  many  people  are  fond  of it) has been listed  and so should be  safe  from demolition .
It's designer  Sir Giles Gilbert Scott also  designed  the famous  Anglican  Cathedral  in Liverpool .
 After the power_station  closed_down , a number  of suggestions  were put_forward  for its feature .
Eventually  it was bought  by an entrepreneur  who planned  to gut  the inside  of the building  and turn  it into a giant  theme_park  type  amusement  complex .
However  as the recession  of the late  1980 's hit  Britain , the rebuilding  work  stopped .
 There are  now  new  plans  to house  a giant  shopping  and leisure  complex  with a 32 screen  cinema , inside the shell of the building , due  to open  in 2001 .
This may also  include  theatres , a film  studio  and a hotel .
The surrounding  area  will also  be revitalized  and it is hoped  that a new  rail  link  to the area  will also  be created .
 The Power_Station  other  claim  to fame  is  that it appeared  on the front  cover  of the Pink Floyd album  "Animals" with a pig  flying  overhead !    
Situated  between Knightsbridge and Chelsea, beautiful  Belgravia is  the salubrious  and wealthy  area  which houses  many of the capital  most  eligible  figures ! 
Belgrave Square  and its surrounding  streets  is  also  the location  of many  embassies .
 :48 : However , there can be  few  squares  that can equal  Eaton Square  in providing  accommodation  for no  less_than  three  James_Bonds ! 
Like Mayfair, Belgravia is  almost  entirely  owned  by the Duke  of Westminster , Britain  richest  man .
Row  upon row  of glorious  period  houses  and pristine  squares  make_up  the majority  of the area , but there are  also  a number  of extremely  exclusive  shops , restaurants  and attractive  pubs .
 :50 : Sandwiched  between many of the grand  houses  you can find  charming  cobbled  mews  containing  smaller  residences .
 Belgravia is , on_the_whole , fairly  quiet  and not  the sort  of place  where you'd undertake  a raucous  pub_crawl  but is  a delight  to stroll  around  on a sunny  afternoon .
Big_Ben  is  not  open  to the public .
Possibly  the most  famous  clock_face  and chimes  in the world , Big_Ben  is  actually  the name  of the biggest  bell  (13 .5  tons ) inside the clock_tower  (320  ft ) which forms  part  of the Houses_of_Parliament .
 Built  in 1858 /9  the bell  was named  after one Sir  Benjamin Hall and when it was cast  it was  Britain  heaviest  bell .
 The clock  four  dials  each  have  a diameter  of 23  ft , the minute_hands  are  14  ft  long  and the numerals  on each  face  are  nearly  2  ft  high .
The placing of old  pennies  in the mechanism  controls  the accuracy  of the clock  movement , yet  it is  incredibly  accurate .
 The tower  which houses  the Big_Ben  has been  called  by many  names ; one of the most  popular  is  St Stephen's Tower .
The official   line , from the head  of Public  Information  at the Palace  is  that the clock_tower  is  simply  called  the Clock_Tower .
However , the name  Big_Ben  has now  passed  into every day use  and the locals call  it Big_Ben , so we'll go_along  with that too .
There is  a light  at the top  of the tower  which, when lit , indicates  that the House_of_Commons  is sitting .
During the day  you can tell  if they're sitting  by looking_for  a flag  at the top  of the nearby  Victoria Tower , which is  the tallest  and largest  of the Westminster  towers .
 The subject  of John Buchan's '39  Steps', the Clock_Tower  is  unfortunately  not  open  to the public  so you won't be  able  to check  how many  steps  actually  lead  to the belfry .
 However , we can tell  you that it is  not  39   it is  actually  closer  to 400  depending  on where you start  and finish .
 It is widely  thought  that Buchan dreamt_up  the idea  of using  39  steps  at_a_time  when he was recovering  from illness  in a convalescent  home .
Directly  outside his windows  there were  39  steps  leading  from the patio  to the lawn !   
The room  that houses  the actual  clock  mechanism  is  full  of Victorian  mechanical  wonders  that whiz  and bang  each  time  the clock  strikes .
 :68 :  The dingdongs  that precede  the striking  of the hour  were taken  from George_Frideric_Handel  'Messiah ' and actually  have  lyrics  too .
 'All  through this hour , Lord  be  my guide , That by thy power , No  foot  shall slide '.  
The clock  plays  the first  line  at a quarter  past the hour , the first  and the second  lines  on the half_hour , three  lines  at a quarter  to and the whole  lot  on the hour !    
There has been  a bridge  on this spot  since the 1760 's, though the present  one is  about  100  years  younger .
 The bridge  and the surrounding  area  get  their name  from an order  of Dominican  monks  who had  a monastery  here .
They were  known_as  the Black_Friars  because of their distinctive  black  habits .
 Queen_Victoria  opened  Blackfriars Bridge  in November  1869 .
 Next to the bridge  you can still  see  the pillars , which supported  the old  1860 's London , Chatham and Dover Railway  Bridge .
Demand  for tickets  to Buckingham_Palace   is  high .
The ticket_booth , situated  across the road  from the palace , opens  at 09 :45 .
 Buckingham_Palace  is  the London  home  of the queen  and Prince_Philip .
Queen_Victoria  was  the first  monarch  to take_up  residence  here  after the architect  John Nash transformed  it from Buckingham House  into a palace .
 In 1845  Queen_Victoria  asked  for the Palace  to be extended  to make  more  room  for her growing  family  of four  children .
As part  of the alterations , Marble  Arch , which was  originally  the entrance  to the palace , was moved  to a new  position  at the corner  of Hyde Park .
The palace  is  also  the administrative  headquarters  of the monarchy .
The queen  receives  visiting  heads_of_state  at the palace  and it is  here  that the queen  holds  garden_parties  and bestows  knighthoods  and other  honors .
Foot Guards from the Household Division, in their distinctive  red  tunics  and black  bearskins , can be seen  on guard  duty  outside the palace  daily .
The Changing  the Guard  ceremony  now  takes_place  only  every other day  in the winter  but it is  still  daily  in the summer  months.
After a serious  fire  damaged  Windsor Castle  in 1993  the queen  allowed  the Palace  state_rooms  to be opened  to the public  for the first  time , to help  pay  the Windsor Castle  repair  bill .
When not  away , the queen  and Prince_Philip  spend  most  weekends  at Windsor Castle , where they enjoy  horse  riding .
It is  well  worth  a visit  to what Londoner  often  call  'Buck House' but it can be  very  tiring .
Don't expect  to see  the queen  private  apartments , garden  or swimming_pool  and you certainly  won't meet  Her Majesty.
The palace  is  only  open  to the public  during the summer  months , while the Queen  is staying  at Balmoral, her Scottish  castle .
In spite of being  seedy , grubby  and altogether  unattractive , Camden Town  still  manages  to draw  heaps  of visitors  keen  to sample  its vibrant  market  and underground  music  scene .
Indeed , the market  now  draws_in  100 ,000  every  weekend  and sells  virtually  anything  that can be placed  on a market  stall .
The quality  of goods  varies , but you may well  find  a genuine  bargain .
If the crush  of the market  gets_to  you, wander  down  to the canal  and jump  onto a barge  for a trip  through the attractive  residential_area  of Little  Venice  with its grand  Victorian  villas .
The barge  also  travels  as  far  as Regent's Park  where you can be dropped  in the middle  of the famous  London  Zoo .
Splendidly  chic  boutiques , exquisite  antiques  shops  and hundreds  of charming  eighteenth  and nineteenth  century  houses  make  Chelsea one of the most  desirable  areas  in London .
King's Road  is  the main  shopping  area  and provides  a wealth  of opportunity  for the keen  shopper .
Most  outlets  (especially  on the King's Road ) tend  to be  small , with smart  fashionable  bars  and restaurants  jostling  for space  in between .
Glorious  18 th  and 19 th  century  buildings  abound  housing  many  artistic  and literary  names  just  as they have done  through the centuries .
 The Royal Hospital  was founded  in 1682  by Charles_II  and houses  the Chelsea Pensioners  (distinguished  exservicemen ) who you will probably  see  strolling  around the streets  of Chelsea in their bright  red  coats  and tricorn  hats .
Every  year  the grounds  of the Hospital  open  to the public  for the world  famous  Chelsea Flower  Show , one of London  great  social  events .
 Chelsea is  indeed  one of London  most  delightful  residential_areas  and the ideal  place  for a stroll  on a summer  day .
The city  of London  is  a strange  place .
To a Brit , the 'City ' doesn't mean  the whole  of London  but simply  the 'Square Mile' (actually  1 .08  square_miles ) as it is  colloquially  known .
 Its boundaries  encompass  the financial  heart  of London : an area  where 30 % of the hightech  office  buildings  were built  within the last  ten  years ; an area  which houses  the London  exchange  market  where a staggering  $637  billion  worth  of trading  (32 % of global  business ) takes_place  every  day .
That's more_than  the turnover  of the next  three  largest  centers , New_York , Tokyo  and Singapore  combined .
 280 ,000  'city  gents ', stockbrokers , traders  and shopkeepers  pile  into the City  every  weekday  morning , and pile  out  again  every  evening .
