Indian  Travel  Destinations  arranges  for tours  to Coorg, which is  another  of those lesser known   Hill stations  in India  ensconced  amidst the flowing  tracts  of river  Cauvery.
Tours  to Coorg as a lesser known   Hill Station  in India  are  all  set  to  razzledazzle  a weary  soul  when he embarks  on a tour  to Coorg, a lovely   Hill Station  in India . 
A Tour  to Coorg makes  one visit  the Brahmagiri  Tank  that is  the place  where river  Cauvery drains  itself and thus  it is  a sacred  place , which becomes  red  with vermilion  smatterings  on religious  occasions .
It is  understood  that Goddess  Cauvery graces  this  Hill Station  in India , Coorg, for a rendezvous  with her kith  and kin . 
Other  places  of interest  include  the Islamic  style  Tombs  and minarets  of Dodaveearaja and Lingaraja. 
These constructions  are  very  ancient  in their origin  and are  quaint  by the presence  of minarets  with Nandi Bulls  perched  atop  the minarets .
It also  includes  carved , gothic  windows , which are  home  to different  manifestations  of  Lord  Shiva  in Coorg, a beatific   Hill Station  in India .
Indian  Travel  Destinations  also  arranges  for tours  to the grand  Abbi falls . 
Abbi falls , homed in this  Hill Station  in India , emanate  from the rocky  and moss  strewn  heights  from amongst the hills , exposing  one to the spray  in this  Hill Station  in India , which is  a memorable  experience .
Indian  Travel  Destinations  incorporates  information  on a package_tour  to Coorg coupled  with the needed  information  for tourists  to avail  of the golden  opportunity  to travel  and discover  for themselves the delights  of this  Hill Station  in India .
It opens_up  new  channels  of opportunity  through which tourists  and the willing  travellers  alike  can go_ahead  in their odyssey  to discover  the unheard_of  charms  of Dalhousie, one of the most  sought_after   Hill Stations  in India  in Himachal Pradesh. 
 :11 : Dalhousie as any  tour  to the eminently  seeable   Hill Station  in India  would reveal  brings  to fore the old  era  of British  charm  and the related  suave  sophistication .
Dalhousie in line  with the British  era  elegance  and stateliness  of Shimla is  too  worth  a watch  just  for the sake  of experiencing  the hallowed  past  of the British  era .
Indian  Travel  Destinations  too  opens_up  Dalhousie, the historical   Hill Station  in India , to a veritable   mix  of tourists  through its tours  to Dalhousie.
Other  places  of interest  to tourists  are  of the order_of  Lakshminaryan Temple  the vast  Chamba Chaugan and the curator   pride  Bhuri Singh Museum .
Chamba Chaugan is  well_known  for its size , greenery  and the fact  that it remains  the venue  for most of the festivals  and fairs  of Dalhousie, a  gem  of the  Hill Stations  in India  in Himachal Pradesh.
 :15 : Dalhousie, the  pride  of Himachal Pradesh, remains  a much  sought_after   Hill station  in India  as a honey_mooner  destination . 
While talking  of Dalhousie one must not  fail  to mention  Khajiar which is  a big  hit  with the tourists  in Himachal Pradesh as a popular   Hill Station  in India .
In the mundane  sense  of the term  Khaijiar is  a large  lake  akin  to a field  which is  
most of the time  more_than  half  empty  and surrounded  by snow  from all  the directions .
Indian  Travel  Destinations  organizes  tours  to Darjeeling which is  a favored  Honeymoon  Destination  in India  to be explored  and savored  by honeymooners  in India .
 Honeymoon  in Darjeeling can be  an experience  to be cherished  for a whole  lifetime ,  courtesy  its natural  beauty  and refreshingly  poignant  scenery .
As a much  sought_after  Honeymoon  Destination  in India , Darjeeling is  home  to a multifarious  variety  of scenic  places  and natural  beauty . 
Honeymoon  is  a period  of exploration  of the selves  and the life  partner , which requires  a retreat  far  away  from the maddening  crowds , and the cacophony  of the daytoday  life .
 If these are  the qualifications  for commissioning  an ideal  odyssey  into one's private  confines , then Darjeeling very_much  qualifies  as the Honeymoon  Destination  in India  which can get_rid_of  all  problems  of practical  life  very_much  to the glee  of the honeymooners  in India .
Honeymoon  in Darjeeling is punctuated by several  places  worth  more_than  a single  visit .
 The Highest  point  in Darjeeling , our idyllic  Honeymoon  Destination  in India  is  Tiger Hill , which is  11 km  away  from Darjeeling and next_door  to Ghoom.
Tiger Hill , at its commanding  heights , provides  the honeymooner  in India  with a panoramic  view  of the heights  in Kanchenjunga  and a mention  must be made  of the Sanchen Lake  which is  the sole  source  of domestic  water  for the denizens  of Darjeeling. 
 Sanchen Lake  positioned  in Darjeeling, as the ideal  Honeymoon  Destination  in India  is  a delight  to behold  and sense  for the honeymooners  in India .
Himalayas  come_up  prime  in the list  of eminently  seeable  sites  as far as the  Hill Stations  in India  are  concerned . 
The Young  Himalayas  as they are  called  harbor   the Doon valley  and the small  but exceedingly  beautiful  Dehradoon town  lying  in its womb, which is talked_of  as an epitome  of natural  beauty  as far as  Hill Stations  in India , is  concerned .
Indian  Travel  Destinations ' tour_guides  are guiding  the well  inclined  tourists  and interested  travelers  to a package_tour  of the  breathtakingly  beautiful  town , Dehradun, a proud   Hill Station  in India , Uttaranchal. 
An Indian  Travel  Destination  sponsored  tour  to Dehradun can be a rejuvenating  and  reenergizing  stint  for a tired  pair  of legs  or for an overworked  executive .
Indian  Travel  Destinations  accounts_for  a 
package_tour  to Dehradun, which shares  many  features  of significance  with other   Hill Stations  in India , Uttarnachal. 
A tour  to Dehradun would reveal  that it is  located  in the picturesque  Shivalik valley  and also  happens  to be  the capital  of Uttaranchal State , which abounds_in  beauty  from   Hill Stations  in India . 
A tour  to Dehradun would reveal  that it boasts  of allurements  of the order of Tapekeswar Temple , Rajaji National_Park  and Robbers cave  whose unique  attraction  is  serving  as a picnic  spot  in this  Hill Station  in India , namely , Dehradun.
The word  Dehradun too  has  a lot  of meaning  attached  to it. 
The term  Dera refers  to "camp " and Dun points  to "a valley ".
As a  Hill Station  in India , Dehradun is  also  home  to the famed  schools  of the order of Doon School  and Welhams as elite  centers  of learning  in India . 
Apart from being  a much  sought_after   Hill Station  in India , they qualify  Doon valley  to be  a star  class  educational  center .
 :41 : A tour  to Dehradun would also  reveal  that this enchanting   Hill Station  in India  also  stands  host  to the respected  Forest  Research  Institute , Wadia Institute  of Himalayan  Studies  and a branch  of ONGC, which makes  it a  Hill Station  in India  with a difference .
Indian  Travel  Destinations  organizes  tours  to Goa  as a prominent  Honeymoon  Destination  in India  for the aspiring  honeymooners  in India  and abroad . 
Goa  beaches  are  famed  all_over  the world  for their pristine  charm  and the golden  sand  like  appearance  of some of the beaches  are  similar  to the golden  sand  of the mythical  "Keelavi Beach " of Phantom, the capped   comic  character  who celebrated  his own  honeymoon  with his better_half , Diana Palmer, in the golden  Beaches  of Kelawi, in the middle of tribal  dwarfs men .
A dip  in the_Arabian_Sea  in the beaches  of a gothic  Goa  can be  a memorable  occasion  for some of the honeymooners  in India  who visit  Goa  as a premier  Honeymoon  Destination  in India . 
The first_and_foremost  in the list  of beaches  is  the Anjuna beach  which can be  the source  of immense  pleasure  and satisfaction  for honeymooners  in India  with its flea_market  and the wild  parties .
Honeymooners  in India  in search  of a quiet  walk  of solitude  down  one of the beaches  can opt  for the quieter  version  of the coastline  in the form  of the famous  Baga Beach , which is  famed  for its slightly  more  picturesque  Goa . 
It is  located  in the lee  of a rock , and that too , in a wooded  part  of one of the most  favored  Honeymoon  Destinations  in India , for couples  out for a Honeymoon  in Goa .
Indian  Travel  Destinations  helps_out  honeymooners  in India  who are  in search  for a real  taste  of the  Goan  life  and its people . 
It is  here  that water_sports  and feni, the typical  locally  brewed  wine  flow   ad nauseum  and make  the honeymooners  in India  feel  one with the true  spirit  of Goa . feel one with
Cruises  too  form   part and parcel  for the  highend  honeymooners  in India .
 All this qualifies  Goa  as a favored  and much  sought_after  Honeymoon  Destination  in India . 
It was  the Portuguese  who first  colonized  Goa  and they initiated  the rich  tradition  of church  architecture  in Goa , which  goes on  to make  Goa  into a major  honeymoon  destination  in India  for honeymooners  in India . 
The Baroque  style   ruled the roost  in Goa  which amounts  to an overwhelming  stress  on intricate  glass work details and wood_work . 
Honeymooners  in India  can very_well  afford  to explore  this second  and_lesser explored  facet  of  Goan  beauty  for a Honeymoon  in Goa  as a Honeymoon  Destination  in India .
The site  India  Travel  Destinations  offers  you details  regarding tours  to historical  monuments  in Gujarat  in West  India . 
There are   quite a few  interesting  places  to visit  in Gujarat , India .
Some of these are  Lothal, Hriday Kunj, and Sun  Temple  at Modhera, Bardoli, Kirti Mandir and Dandi.
Lothal is  one of the most  important  historical  sites  that you must pay  a visit  to during your tours  to historical  monuments  in Gujarat , India .
 A proper   Harappan  settlement  was excavated  by archeologists  at Lothal that is  located  quite  close  to Ahmedabad in Gujarat , India . 
These prehistoric  remains  are  of great  interest  as they give  us a picture  of ways  and lifestyles  of the people  who lived  in the past . 
It is believed  that the  Harappan  civilization  flourished  for 
more_than  500  years  in the Gujarat  region , India . 
You can see  well  planned  and organized  city  ruins , with rows  of houses  at Lothal.
 :65 : Hriday Kunj is  one of the important  historical  sites  in Gujarat  as it was  here  that Mahatma_Gandhi  initiated  his practical  experiments   with respect to  a nonviolent  Satyagraha  and freedom  struggle  for the country . 
It was  at this ashram  that Gandhiji began  his Salt  Satyagraha .
This ashram  was named  Hriday Kunj, as it was  a haven  for the socalled  untouchables  who were addressed  as Harijans  by the Mahatma . 
The word  'Hari' stands_for  God  and 'Jan' stands_for  People , therefore  the word  Harijan  meant  'the people  of God '.
There is  a vast  prayer  ground  at this ashram  that has  its own  historical  importance .
The sun  temple  located  at Modhera in Gujarat , West  India  was constructed  during the rule  of the Solanki ruler , Bhimdev I.
This famous  historical  monument  is  in ruins  but still  warrants  a visit  during your tours  to historical  monuments  in the region .
This temple  is considered  to be  an example  of the excellent  architectural  skill  and acumen  of the craftsmen  of ancient  India .
There are  12  images  of the Sun_God  that have been sculpted  in the Iranian  style  and the temple  has been constructed  in a way  so that it faces  the east  and as a result  sun_rays  during equinoxes  fall  directly  on the main  seat  of the temple  deity .
This huge  temple  complex  comprises  of a Sabha Mandap, Prasad and a Kund. 
There is  an underground  cell  in the temple  premises .
During your tours  to historical  monuments  in Bardoli in Gujarat  you must visit  the Bardoli Satyagraha Ashram  located  in Surat in Gujarat , India . 
The historic  importance  of this place  stems  from the fact  that Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel began  his first  Satyagraha  in the year  1928 .
Kirti Mandir is  a national  monument , as it happens  to be  the birthplace  of Mahatma_Gandhi .
 This place  has  some  religious  importance , as it is  also  the birthplace  of the legendary  character  Sudama, who was supposed  to be  Lord Krishna  best_friend .
This house  has  a lovely  prayer  hall  and a huge  library  that contains  the choicest  of books .
During your tours  to historical  places  in Gujarat , India , you must visit  Dandi that is  a tiny  place  on the seaside . 
This place  became  famous  when Gandhiji led  a huge  procession  to this place  and broke  the salt  law  of the British  government  as an act  of Civil_Disobedience  Satyagraha  in the year  1930 .
Tours  to historical  monuments  in Gwalior, India , with the site  India  Travel  Destinations  can be  a great  learning  experience  apart from the thrill  that you experience  when visiting  monuments  that are associated  with true  stories  of power , glamour  and bravery .
Some of the commonly  visited  historical  monuments  in Gwalior, India , are  the Gwalior Fort , the Sanchi stupas , Udayagiri caves , Teli Ka Mandir and Tansen's Tomb .
The Gwalior Fort  is  about  1000  years  old  and is  perhaps  one of the most  imposing  monuments  in the Gwalior city .
 This massive  fortress  is  located  on top  of a sandstone  hill  and has been controlled  by rulers  from several  dynasties  such as the Moghuls , Tomars, Britishers  and Scindias. 
This huge  fort  has  huge  battlements  that surround  palaces , massive  water   tanks  and temples .
During your tours  to the historical  monuments  in this area  you find  that the walls  of the Gwalior Fort  
give_way  to the steep  slopes . 
This fort  has  a special  historical  significance  as it was  from this particular  fortress  that the Rani  of Jhansi and Tantiya Tope fought  for the Indian  independence .
During your tours  to the historical  monuments  in Sanchi that is  located  at a few  kilometers  from the city  of Gwalior you can visit  the historic  Buddhist  stupas  at Sanchi, India . 
These stupas , temples , monasteries  and pillars  date_back  to almost  the 3 rd  century  B.C .
A Chunar sandstone  pillar  fragment  is  located  near the Stupa  that has  the world  famous  Ashoka edict  that is  popular  among the tourists  as it is supposed  to be  a warning  to the Buddhist  monks  against any  fracture  in the Buddhist  community .
This famous  Stupa  is  known  for its massive  gateways  that were constructed  by the rulers  of the Satavahana dynasty .
The special  feature  of these gateways  is  the fact  that the carvings  on these depict  events  from the life  of the Buddhist  saint   Lord  Buddha  and anecdotes  related_to  the spread  of Buddhism .
You may also  visit  the tomb  of the famous  singer  Tansen; Tansen was considered  to be  one of the nine  jewels  of the Moghul  Emperor  Akbar's Court .
Indian  Travel  Destinations  arranges  for tours  for honeymoon  in Kullu Manali, which is  a prominent  Honeymoon  Destination  in India  for the benefit  of honeymooners  in India . 
Kullu Manali as an ideal  Honeymoon  Destination  in India  is a place  gifted  with picture_postcard  beauty  with the attendant  wooded  environment  and the whispering  streams  to be savored  by honeymooners  in India .
Kullu Manali, as a popular  Honeymoon  Destination  in India  is  a jewel  in the itinerary  of  Hill Stations  in Himachal Pradesh.
 Places  of interest  for the starry_eyed  and moon  gazing  twosomes  are  manifold  in Kullu Manli, which is  a favored  Honeymoon  Destination  India  for honeymooners  in India  out  for a memorable  Honeymoon  in Kullu Manali.
Kullu valley  is  a larger  entity  with Manali nestled  in the valley  and intersected  by a gurgling  stream  of River  Beas running  amidst the town .
 Manali town  is  a romantic  delight  nestled  comfortably  between the Dhauladhar and the Pirpanjal 
mountain_ranges.  
The natural  and scenic  delights  served   on a silver platter  before the honeymooners  in India  in this blissful  and surreal  Honeymoon  Destination  in India  are  there  to be cherished  for years  to come  once  the sojourn  ends  like whiff  of wind . 
It is  for no  small  reason  that Kullu Manali has  earned  the sobriquet  of, "Valley  of Gods ".
Rohtang Pass  is  another  picturesque  track  which can also  serve  as another  favorite  jaunt  for the newly_weds  out  on a tour  of eternal  selfdiscovery  and satisfaction . 
The Rohtang Pass  as a part  of a Honeymoon  Destination  in India  can enthrall  the honeymooners  in India  with its vast  natural  expanses  and rolling  meadows .
Rohtang Pass  also  happens  to be  the entry  point  to the Lahaul Spiti Valley , another  beatific  locale , which is  home  to the Sonapani Glacier  for the benefit  of Honeymooners  in India  in Himachal Pradesh. 
The festive  Kullu Darabar held  in the holy  month  of autumn  is  another  key  attraction  serving  as an idyllic  Honeymoon  Destination  in India  for a complete  Honeymoon  in Kullu Manali in Himachal Pradesh.
