India  Travel  Destinations  provides  the visitor  with a unique  opportunity  to  lie back  and relish  the true  tropical  heat  in a lush  green  rain  resort  in Lakkidi, which is  another  prominent   hill station  in India . 
A tour  to Lakkidi would enable  a traveler  to discover  the stereotypical  characteristics  which mythical  Kerala is  known  for, i.e.  sleepy  backwaters , rain  fed  tropical  forests  and the tranquil  murmurings  of rain  dripping  woods .
:3 : As a popular   hill station  in India , Lakkidi also  boasts  of the second  highest  degree  of rainfall  in the whole  wide  world . 
A tour  to the rain  soaked  silhouettes  of Lakkidi would enable  the tourists  to decipher  the same  magic. 
Irulas and Mudugars are  the main  tribes  inhabiting  the Waynad region  which houses  the rain  soaked  Lakkidi as a famous   hill station  in India . 
The Waynad region  is  home  to Malleswari peak , which is  home  to an India  renowned  Shiva  Lingam .
India  Travel  Destinations  arranges  tours  to Lakkidi, which is  also  recognized  for its cultural  vitality  and verve .
 Kunjan Nambiar is  a poet  dramatist  of great  name  and fame  in Kerala who  expertised  in the art_form  of Thallu, which literally  means  " to jump " or  "cut a caper" .
History  lessons  teach  us that Kunjan Nambiar, the popular  poet  from Lakkidi, a  hill station  in India  followed  the tenets  of Natya Shastra, a treatise  on dance  compiled  in the 2 nd  century  B.C. . 
Kunjan Nambiar used  to perform  in the Chakkiaars, groups  of drummers , and he fused  his style , Thallu with images  and themes  from the Mahabharata  and the Ramayana  in a way  unique  to Keralese art_forms .
The peculiar  note  of his fusion  art_form  is  to take_up  cudgels  against the social  injustices  and discrimination  prevailing  in the society . 
These are  some of the wares  which India  Travel  Destinations  has  to offer  to the interested  parties .
India  Travel  Destinations  provides  a window  of opportunity  through which tourists  and interested  travelers  can go_ahead  and explore  the natural  beauty  of Manali, a prominent   hill station  in India . 
Tours  to Manali in Himachal Pradesh opens_up  new  vistas  of nature  seeking  before us with all  its resplendent  glory . 
Manali is  a charming  and ebullient   hill station  in India  capping  the hills  in the Himalayas  in Himachal Pradesh.
Vaivastava, the seventh  incarnation  of Manu found  a floating  fish  in his bathing  water , which he nurtured  till it grew  into a mammoth  fish  big  enough  for sea .
 Then, the story  goes  that the saint  and Manu went_on  making  a big  vessel  as the fish  warned  them of a gigantic  deluge , which was soon  to take_over  mankind . 
The place  where this all  saving  and securing vessel  was built  is  known  to all of us as, 'Manali'. 
Currently , it is  this life  saving  height  of the mythical  age  of saints , asuras  and gods , which provides  succor  and relief  to the people  in search  of calm  and quietude  amidst nature  solitude .
 :20 : Hadimda Devi and Manu temple  are  some of the chief  centers  of worship  in Manali which are  known  all_over  in the eyes  of the connoisseurs  both for its architectural  beauty  and religious  significance . 
Funtsok Coffee_house , Little Tibet and Tibet Kitchen in this  hill station  in India , are  some of the places  of Tibetan  origin  and significance , which need  to be visited  to have  a feel  of Tibet  without visiting  the real  place .
India  Travel  Destinations , the tour  guide , organizes  tours  to Shimla, another  gem  of a  hill station  in India , to unearth  its magnificence  in the form  of locales  of the order  of, Club House, Vasisth Baths and the glacier  closest  to Manali, Solang valley . 
It has attained  lorish and legendary  proportions  both  for tourists  who have visited  the glacier  and the prospective  ones who are yet  to live  the experience  of this locale  rich  in grassy  slopes  and numerous  picnic  spots .
Rohtang pass , also  in the near  vicinity  of this beautiful   hill station  in India , which a guided  tour  to Shimla would reveal , is posited  at a height  of 3980  meters  above sea_level . 
It is  a major  attraction  and a congregation  point  for all  seasoned  trekkers  and people  out  for longer  jaunts  in Shimla, another  of those ethereal   hill stations  in India , Himachal Pradesh.
The site  India  Travel  Destinations  offers  you details  of online  reservation  for tours  to historical  monuments  in Mandu in Madhya Pradesh, India .
During your tours  to the historical  monuments  in the Mandu region  of Madhya Pradesh, India , you can visit  the Jahaz Mahal, the Hindola Mahal, Ashrafi Mahal and Hoshang Shah's tomb .
This lovely  and unique  piece  of architecture  was constructed  on a narrow  strip  of land  located  in between two  water   tanks . 
The rooftop  terrace  of this ancient  monument  is decorated  with domed  pavilions .
The Hindola Mahal is  another  historic  site  that you must visit  during your tours  to historical  monuments  in Mandu, India . 
 The palace  has  sloping  walls  that give  the impression  as though they are swaying  in the wind ; huge  and heavy  stone  arches  support  the ceiling  inside the fort .
During your tours  to historical  monuments  in Mandu, India , you can also  visit  the Champa Baodi that has  a huge  complex  that has  a complicated  water_system .
Hoshang Shah's tomb  is  located  in Mandu, India . 
This tomb  was constructed  with white  marble  and the tomb  is  located  on a low  plinth  and has  a dome  with four  artistic  cupolas .
The Ashrafi Mahal is  another  interesting  historic  site  that was  a theological  college . 
Thus you can come  and be  a part  of the ancient  grandeur  of Mandu in Madhya Pradesh, India .
India  Travel  Destinations , the tour  guide , opens_up  new  vistas  in the sphere  of adventure  tourism  in India  through its latest  addition  in the form  of motorcycle  safari  in India . 
A motorcycle  is  speed  and precision  personified , with the possessor  of the machine  turning  into a speed  hawk , seconds  after he or she spurts  on the engine . 
It is  an experience  alien  to the sense  of safety  and stability  enjoyed  by fourwheel  drivers  and participants  of jeep  safaris .
Motorcycle  safari  in India  not_only  enlists  the speeding  part  of the machine  but also  the patience  and balancing  part  of this facet  of adventure  tourism  in India . 
Such can be  the charm  of motorcycle  safari  in India  and for_that_matter  in any  other  part  of the world  which enjoys  a pride_of_place  in the  pantheon  of adventure  tourism  in India .
India  Travel  Destinations  includes  the tracks  of motorcycle  safari  in India  like Ladakh, Leh and the foothills  of the Himalayas . 
It has to be accepted  that a participant  to motorcycle  safari  has to be  very  well  prepared  for the conditions  and climate  while undertaking  this part  of adventure  tourism  in India . 
Then, sunglasses  and the attendant  sun  screening  equipment  is  a necessity  if the weather  during the motorcycle  safari  in India  gets  a bit  warm .
A Rajasthani safari  peculiarly  begins  at Delhi  with the delivery  of motorbikes  to the daring  travelers  marking  Nemharana as the starting_point  of this motor_cycle  safari  in India  as part  of this unique  aspect  of adventure  tourism  in India . 
This motorcycle  safari  travels  through Bikaner, the fortified  town  of Jaisalmer, culminating  in Agra . 
Another  motorcycle  safari  in India , which also  includes  Shangri la in its tour  itinerary , is  yet another  part  of the adventure  tourism  exercise  in India . 
Such  motorcycle  safaris  are  not_only  famous  for their reaching  of destinations  within a stipulated  time  limit  but also  for the vast  array  of people , cultures , fairs  and festivals  which the motorbike  riders  can get  to know  while astride their culture  machines .
 Hill stations  in India  tend  to be  all  underrated  as places  of visit  and travel  in the want  of proper  marketing  and advertisement  stratagems .
Munnar being  one of them needs  to be rediscovered  by nature  lovers  and seekers  of the freshest  of natural  flavors .
 Hill stations  in south  India  being  known  for their sleepy  image  and low  profile  need  to be refurbished . 
Munnar has  a lot  of significance  in its nomenclature  and its glorious  historical  backdrop  too  makes  it no  lightweight .
Munnnar as a lesser known   hill station  in India  was  the summer  capital  of the British  Raj  in south  India  with numerous  proud  precedents  attached  to its history  and origin . 
The name  itself means  a lot  with the reference  being made to the confluence  of three  south  Indian  rivers , making  it a unique   hill station  in India  and also  in the south .
 The three  rivers  being  Kundala, Nallathali and Mudrapuza that adds  to the beauty  of the place  to be discovered .
The coffee  and cardamom  plantations  abound  in large  numbers  in this  hill station  in India  and coupled with its expansive  grassy  lands  it qualifies  as a perfect  picture_postcard  beauty , only  that it deserves  a lot  more  attention  on the national  and international  scene  as a destination . 
It is  already  a popular  honeymoon  destination  for the moon  gazing  newly_weds .
It remains  for the others a place  to be to discovered , making  a tour  to Munnar a must .
Mussoorie has rightly  earned  for itself the epithet  of, the queen  of  hill stations  as it  oozes  with the true  resplendence  of nature  that any  other  place  would die  to be called  as, among the rest  of the  hill stations  in India . 
Cascading  waterfalls , the woods  in the neighborhood  and grassy  slopes , all add  up to the beauty  of Mussoorie as a  must visit   hill station  in India .
Places  of the order  of, Kempty falls , Lal Tibba coupled with the activities  of the genre  of DehradunMussoorie trekking  and Gun hill  Trekking  which is  the second  most  highest  place  of this  hill station  in India , add  up to the beauty  of Mussoorie.
This picturesque  waterfall  adds  to the beauty  of Mussoorie as the queen  of the  hill stations  in India . 
This  breathtakingly  beautiful  waterfall  is  the prime  attraction  of this  hill station  in India  and it leads  to an increment  in the beauty  of Mussoorie in its pristine  form .
The waterfall  involves  the fall  of water  from a height  of 4 ,500  feet  leading  up to the diversion  of the flow  into five  different  water  streams  accompanied  by the sounds  of hollering  and shouting  tourists  in a rain  dance .
The Mall  or the shopping_center , which includes  a row  of bargain  and negotiable  price  shops , is geared_up  throughout the year  for the customers .
India  Travel  Destinations  makes  the place  and its small  and cheap  shopping  opportunity  available  to you by arranging  for a trip  to this unique   hill station  in India .
The products  on offer  in such a visit   brokered  by India  Travel  destinations  are  of a varied  array . 
They include  ceramic_ware , Tibetan  revolving  wheels  or the Thangkas, carved  walking_sticks  and the Ladhaki shawls .
 The novel  shopping  experience  takes Mussorie into a totally  different  class  in comparison with other   hill stations  in India  and adds  to the beauty  of Mussoorie.
India  Travel  Destinations  happens  to 
 pave the way  for a willing  and interested  nature  seeker  to embark  on a journey  to have  a fruitful  and meaningful  sojourn  with Nainital, another  exotic  abode  of peace  nestled  in the Himalayas . 
Nainital, as a  hill station  in India  enjoys  a pride_of_place  among the other   hill stations  in India  courtesy its natural  charm  and elegance . 
The exposure  is furthered  by the arrangements  of India  Travel  Destinations , the tour  guide  with its tours  to Nainital. 
India  Travel  Destinations  reserves  tours  to Nainital, which basks  in the glory  of its natural  resplendence  and grace . 
Nainital is  known  to the frequenters  of this  hill station  in India  as the district  of lakes .
Nainital, which is  a famous  retreat  for Delhi  denizens , is  popular  among the trekkers  and travelers  for its cluster  of great  lakes  too   Naini lake , Bhimtal lake  and Nakuchia lake . 
The northern  point  of the lake  is  called  as Mallital and the southern  part  as Tallital. 
A bridge  connects  both  these ends , which also  house  thriving  shopping_malls  with bargain  price  shops .
Bhimtal is  located  at a  motorable  distance  of 22  kilometers . 
The lake  is bejeweled  with an island  restaurant  in the middle  of the lake  in this memorable   hill station  in India , Nainital.
Bhimtal is  even  larger  than the Naini lake , which reflects  the surrounding  hills  and makes  Nainital a unique   hill station  in India .
Nakuchia Tal is  another  lake , which deserves  a mention  in the pantheon of  water bodies  in Nainital, the famous   hill station  in India . 
Naini peak  is  the highest  hill  point  around the city , which makes  it the highest  place  in Nainital, a proud   hill station  in India .
India  as a naturally  endowed  country  is  rich  in natural  beauty . 
 Hill stations  in India , usually  nestled  amidst the hills  and mountain_ranges  in the northern  and the southern  portion  of the country , abound  in large  numbers . 
Western   Ghats  of the country  too  boast  of very  many   hill stations  in India  with Nilgiris as the pedestal , which these  hill stations  of India  seem  to be perched  upon.
Much of Nilgiri hills  covers  a couple  of states , Tamil_Nadu  being  very  prominent  among them. 
It includes  the Cauvery river  that originates  in the Coorg district  of Karnataka  and happens  to be  the lifeline  of the hill  ecosystem .
The heights  of this quaint   hill station  in India  are  gifted  with moist  deciduous , wet  evergreen  forests , and grassy  knolls . 
Sandalwood  happens  to be  the primary  product  that is  both  legitimately  and illegitimately  extricated  out of the Nilgiri forests  making  these forests  a profitable  section  of natural  bounty  for the state  governments  to upkeep .
India  Travel  Destinations , the tour  guide , presents  a  must grab  opportunity  to the travelers  and journeyman  to seek_out  the Nilgiri hills . 
The site  beckons  the clients  with online  booking  of  tour packages  to the hills  and relevant  information  about the  hill stations  of India  ensconced  in the Nilgiri hills .
Udghamandalam (Ooty) located  at a distance  of 105  Kms  from Coimbatore is  a gem  in the repertoire  of places  in the Nilgiri hills  and the  hill stations  in India .
 It is  understood  to be  the queen  of  hill stations  in India  nestled  among the picturesque  Nilgiri hills , which once_again  form  a favorite  retreat  for the people  of southern  India . 
India  Travel  Destinations  organizes  and arranges  for tours  to Ooty with its vast  paraphernalia  of linked  tours  and excursions  to the nearby  sylvan  environs .
The tradition  and the subsequent  establishment  of numerous  tea  estates  made  Ooty into a much visited   hill station  in India . 
Lofty  mountains , a dense  flora  and fauna , surrounding  sylvan  environs  and miles  of expanses  of tea  gardens  meet  the passenger  eye  on most  routes .
An excursion  to Ooty during the Tea  festival ,  living it up  in the middle  of tea  followers  hailing  from all  across the globe , makes  Ooty a unique   hill station  in India .
 It is  an occasion  not  to be squandered  so that one can avail  of the tours  to Ooty provided  by the India  Travel  Destinations  reminding  the interested  enthusiasts  that Ooty is  a primary   hill station  in India  worth  more_than  a singular  visit  packed  with its evocative  sylvan  environs .
The government  museum  located  at Ooty boasts  of tribal  handicrafts , regional  ecological  details  peppered  with attractive  handicrafts  of Tamil_Nadu . 
Ooty is  connected  to Mettupalayam, through railway , which is  then , directly  connected  to Coimbatore and Chennai .
