The two  railway_stations  in Bangalore  get  rail  traffic  from all around the country .
City Central is  the main  station  but some  trains  also  stop  at Cantonment , which is  closer  to MG Road  in the heart  of the city .
There is  no  dearth  of buses  which go  here , there  and everywhere  from Bangalore ’s sprawling  bus_station .
There are  bus_services  to all  the neighboring  states  and these are  of a variety   regular , express , super  express , deluxe  and super  deluxe ! Taxis  can be hired  to make  trips  around the region  too .
Renting  a car  with or without a driver  is  also  an option .
For self  driving  a valid  license , identification , some  security_deposit  and a whole  load  of guts  would be  mandatory  unless of_course  you drive  in Delhi ! Bangalore ’s light_blue  buses  are  stranger  friendly  than in most  places  in India .
The Government  of India  Tourist  Office  is  open  from 9 :30  am  to 6  pm  on weekdays  and from 9  am  to 1  pm  on Saturdays .
The Karnataka  State  Tourism  Development  Corporation  office  has  similar  timings  minus  half  an hour  at each  end .
The best  season  to visit  this region  is  around  October .
The weather  is  cool  and invigorating , and that is  half  the battle  won  against exhaustion  on the road  and such  hassles .
This is  also  a good  time  because festival  enthusiasm  is  in_the_air  and the Dussehra procession  in Mysore  is not  to be missed .
From big   5  star  establishments  to small   guesthouses , Bangalore  has  accommodation  that 
cuts_through  the entire  range  of prices  and services .
The cheapest   joints  will have  shared  bathrooms  and limited  hot  water  supply .
Pub  hopping  is  a  must do  in Bangalore , almost  one of the sights  to see ! If you’re traveling  to Bangalore  between July  and September  don’t forget  your umbrella  or raincoat .
Cottons  and open  toed  sandals  are  sensible  daily  wear  in Bangalore .
Whether its  pebbling  or clubbing , dining  or wining , a quick  bite  somewhere  or a leisurely  meal , Bangalore  presents  a virtual  continuum  of opportunities  worthy  of this dynamic  city .
Most of the action  in Bangalore  takes_place  downtown , though there are  some  off_beat  options  in just_about  any  part  of the town .
Little  tiffin   joints  that serve  up a crisp  hot  dosa (the south  Indian  rice  pancake , sometimes  with potato  filling ) with steaming  sambar (spicy  lentil_soup ) are  
 a dime a dozen .
There are   5 star  coffee_shops , specialty  restaurants , pizzerias , confectionary_stores  and Indian  restaurants  to choose  from.
For Epicurean  taste_buds , Bangalore  has  a tempting  range  of restaurants  that serve  every  type  of cuisine .
You name  it, Bangalore  has  it.
 :23 : For a taste  of authentic  Japanese  sushi , Dahlia is  the new  restaurant  on Church Street , haunted  by those who enjoy  experimenting  with their food .
Dine  in style  at Ebony, the highest  terrace  restaurant  in Bangalore  with a lovely  view  of the city  and a great  spread  of Provencal French , Parsee, Mughlai and Tandoori food .
Some of the best  Executive  lunches  you could have  in this city  are  at the Raj Pavilion.
The place  exudes  that old  world  charm  with marvelous  traditional  English  meals  from the days  of the raj  and Shikaar.
The Great Wall at the Meridien is  another  great  Chinese  place  for a business  lunch .
Or if you prefer  Thai , try  the lunch  buffet  at Paradise Island at the Taj West End.
For sumptuous  continental , hearty  steaks  and lamb , the Only Place is  quite  the right  place  on Brigade Road .
Bangalore  has  a smorgasbord  of ethnic  eating_places .
Sample  some  fiery  Andhra cuisine  at Amravathi
or go  to the other  end  of the country  and eat  North  Indian  food  at the Peacock Garden in Gateway Hotel , which has  an elaborate  lunch  buffet .
Dine  at the Tandoor, Bangalore  best  Punjabi, Tandoori and Mughlai restaurant .
Jacaranda at Koramangala is  a  multi  cuisine  
eating_place  with great  ambience .
The Cosmo Village is guaranteed  to please  with its "fusion " cuisine  which means  a smattering  of everything in a variety  of flavors ! Another  offbeat  restaurant  is  the South Indian Parsi, an 
internet  kiosk  and cafe  that is  a gourmet  delight  and is  always  packed .
Part  of the excitement  of being  in Bangalore  is  the pub  culture , which, incidentally , originated  in the city .
So there are  pulsating  pubs  like The Black Cadillac and the Purple Haze, both on Residency Road  and both wonderful  hangouts .
The Under ground  on MG Road  is  another  popular  chill_out  zone , while Peco's pulsates  to 60 's style  music .
The Pub World opposite Galaxy theatre  has  an old  world  aura .
The  five star  hotels  in town  have  equally  exciting  bars  and cocktail_lounges  if you are looking_for  some  "top  rung " fun .
Bangalore  has  a fair  number  of Darshinis or little  cafeterias  where you can grab  a quick  and highly  economical  bite .
Equally  popular  for  finger licking  goodies  is  the Mavalli Tiffin Room  or MTR, where delicious  South  Indian  fast_food  and  "set meals"  are dished_up   zero  on ambience  but unbeatable  in value  for money ! Nizam's  kathi rolls  (of Kolkata  fame ) have found their way to Bangalore , as has  K C Das with its delectable  Bengali  sweets  and savories .
The coffee  capital  of India  coffee  state  is  a natural  mecca  for lovers  of the  hellish  brew  and also  for the love  of just  hanging_out ! 
The old_time  favourite , of_course , is  India Coffee_House , newly  renovated  but with the same , familiar  aroma  of the brew .
Coffee_bar  culture  is   alive and kicking  at the many  Coffee Day Cyber_cafe  outlets  throughout the city , and at Java City  on Lavelle Road , where you can nibble  at confectionery  and other  sinful  treats  while you sip  at your beverage .
The  Garden Caféat Fabindia is  lovely  for a coffee_break  and catching_up  with old  friends .
And another  delightful  cafe  for a quick  rendezvous  is  a little  German  bakery  called  Café Schorlemmer at Max Mueller on Lavelle Road .
Recommended  strongly  for lovers  of oriental  food  is  the Rice Bowl, a place  you can eat  at wearing  a blindfold ! A Caribbean paradise  that is 
making waves is  Sue's Food Place at Indiranagar, a casual  but charming  restaurant  that is managed  by a dynamic  woman  from Trinidad_and_Tobago .
Most  Bangaloreans thoroughly  recommend  the Chinese  chow  at Chung Wah for its great  taste  and value  for money .
Orange County  with a name  like this, the restaurant  at the Central Park, Manipal Centre has  some  hearty   
what else , but American  style  food .
 Entertainment wise  the horse_racing  season  is  on  from May July  and November March .
Bangalore  's golf_clubs  and the swimming_pools  in some  hotels  allow  non_members  pay  and play  facilities .
The same goes_for  the tennis_club .
Some  cinemas  play  first  run English  films  in air_conditioned  luxury .
Bangalore  is  also  a city  of drama , and this time  in the literal  sense ! If you can do  catch  a play  for an interesting  
evening  out .
Commercial Street  has  a formidable  reputation  as a shopping  area .
There 's a mix  of funky   nouveau  ethnic  western  clothing  as well as very  traditional  and very  stunning  hand  embroidered  silk  sarees .
Prices  are  lower  than at the staid  emporia  and this is  a place  to have  fun .
You 'll realize  that it spills  off the up_market  MG Road  in other  ways  than just  geographically .
MG Road  is lined  with swish  and swanky  stores  that have  some  great  stuff .
Bangalore  is  a good  place  to pick_up  incense , silks , authentic  tribal  jewellery , brass  and copper_ware , soapstone  statues , aromatic  sandalwood  and rosewood  carvings  and lacquer  work .
Shops  open  fairly  early  and shut  at around  8  in the evening .
However , most take  a 3  hour  lunch  (and siesta ) break  around  1  pm  to 4  pm 
Nrityagram or dance  village  is  around  30  km  from the city .
 :69 : Artistes  live , learn  and practice  in its wonderful  environs .
Aesthetically  impeccable  buildings  and a unique  artistic  fervor  that seems  to permeate  the very  atmosphere  here  make  Nrityagram an enthralling  place  to visit .
Willing  learners  and interested  guests  are welcome to spend  time  on the campus  and even  stay  for as  long  as they like .
Whitefield Ashram  (20  km ) is  the spiritual  guru  Satya Sai Baba 's temporary  residence .
The main  Ashram  is  at Puttaparthi in 
Andhra_Pradesh .
You can see  tigers , lions , elephants  and leopards  in a fenced  enclosure .
Its geographical  location  blesses  Bangalore  with a dry  tropical  savannah  type  of climate ; being  situated  at a height  of 1000  metres  ensures  that the summers  are  cool .
It is called  the airconditioned  city , and however  disingenuous  that name  might be  it isn't at_all  untrue .
The only  one  of the metropolises  of India  to be blessed  with year_round  moderate  climate , you're more  likely  than not  to find  good  weather  here  on any  given  day .
The summers  are  cool  with day  temperatures  averaging  at 28 ºC  and night  temperatures  at 20 ºC . 
Winters  are  only  slightly  cooler   day  temperatures  average  at 25 ºC  and night  temperatures  at 15 ºC  . 
The warmest  month  is  June  and the coolest , December .
 :80 : Rains  do substantially  lower  the temperature  when they hit  the city  in the months  from July  to September .
 :81 : Rapid  growth  has had  repercussions  on the climate  of the city .
A large  tract  of parkland  notwithstanding , Bangalore  is increasingly  becoming  a maze  of concrete  structures  and smoke  spewing  cars .
As a result , temperatures  are  now  higher  than ever  before .
As the story  goes  Bangalore  was named  after an old  woman  who served  a wandering  king  a meal  of boiled  beans .
There's little  chance  now  of finding  boiled  beans  anywhere  in Bangalore , the mecca  of IT  in India .
This former  retirement  town  is  now  anything but quiet .
Spearheading  in India  all  things  21 st  century , Bangalore  is  abuzz  with energy  and is  really  quite  groovy  in a  tech  miracle , big  business_school , arts  and theatre  kind  of way .
For a long  time  now  Bangalore  has been  the hip  happening city  of India .
The beautiful  weather , wide  roads , tree  lined  avenues  and relatively  low  real_estate  prices  prompted  its transition  from garden  city  to India  Silicon_Valley .
Bangalore  has  a wealth  of sights  for the tourist   the historical  Bangalore Palace , Kempegowda Fort , Jama Masjid  and Lalbagh Gardens , the sprawling  Cubbon Park , the Bull Temple  and the ISKCON  Temple  are  all on any  sightseeing  tour .
Bangalore  is  also  India  pub  city ; it picked_up  the happy  culture  of beer  drinking  much  before  its urban  counterparts  elsewhere  in India .
Economy : Economically , Bangalore  is  one of the most  successful  cities  in India .
It has attracted  a lot  of foreign  investors  in sectors  ranging  from lab  equipment  to food  processing .
But, its in information_technology  and telecommunications  sector  where the city  scores  highest .
Motorola and Texas Tools run  their Indian  operations  from this city .
Partnering  Hyderabad , the capital  of neighbouring  Andhra_Pradesh  at the head  of India  's much  touted  IT  Revolution , Bangalore  is  the home  of India  's  tech  giants , Wipro and Infosys.
Industries  based  in and around Bangalore  include  aircraft  manufacturing , heavy  electrical  machinery , iron  & steel  and cement .
Governance : Karnataka  has  a bicameral  state  legislature .
The Lower  House (Legislative_Assembly ) has  224  members , elected  for 5  years .
The 75  members  to the Legislative Council, upper  house , are indirectly  elected .
Karnataka  has enjoyed  a relatively  stable  political  scenario , of which it is now  reaping  economic  benefits .
Its capital , Bangalore , is  the city  of choice  for many  multinational  corporations  like Motorola and Texas Tools who  headquartered   their Indian  operations  here .
Karnataka  has also  been  able_to  woo  substantial  foreign  investment .
Efforts  at village  level  governance , known  in India  as the Panchayat  system , have been  successful .
For many  years  one of the major  problems  for the government  had been  the activities  of the sandalwood  smuggler , Veerappan.
He operated  in the forests  of Karnataka  and 
Tamil_Nadu .
The other  major  administrative  problem  that the government  has been trying  to solve  is  the Cauvery River  Water  Dispute , over the sharing  of the river  's waters  with the neighboring  state  of Tamil_Nadu .
