Nehari is  a Ramzan special  and makes  rare  appearance  the rest  of the year , however , if you time_it  well , you can grab  a plate  at the restaurants  around Hyderabad  Nampally station .
Every  night  during Ramzan, cooks  across Hyderabad  throw  in goat  heads , tongues  and trotters  into cauldrons  of water , add  a mysterious  muslin  potli and leave  it to simmer .
By daybreak , the ingredients  transforms  into the divine  nehari, a thin  spicy  soup  that gets  its unique  flavour  from the potli, containing  sandalwood  powder , rose  petals , votive  roots , camphor  and 27  other  spices .
Chakhna is  a lunch_time  special  made of goat  intestines  and leftover  meat  portions , eaten  with kulchas.
A spacious  dining_hall , lined  with tables  and busy  waiters  spooning  out sambhar, buttermilk  and chutneys  to  grababite  officegoers and shoppers  – Abhiruchi is  a no frills  restaurant .
For a quick  lunch  try   ghee  rice  mixed  with karampodi (gunpowder) or curd  rice  with curd  chilli  (dry  red  chillies  marinated  in curd  and deep_fried  ).
The Thali is   vegetarian  but meat  lovers  have  a tough  choice  between gongura mutton  and fish  curry .
Try  to avoid  peak  lunch  hours  (between 1  pm  and 2  pm ), when the clattering  of   stainless_steel  becomes  deafening .
Karachi Bakery :  this is  among three  things  – besides  the Charminar and Biryani  – that old  Hyderabadis take  great  pride  in.
This bakery  was among the Nizams' favorites  (the signboard  still  flaunts  the royal  patronage  it enjoyed  long_ago ) and remains  popular  even  today .
The fare  is  pretty  regular  but no one bakes  such  crisp  and  meltinthemouth  cookies  as Karachi Bakery .
Do try  their cashew  cookies  and Osmania biscuits , named  so  because they were served  to patients  at the Osmania Hospital . 
Southern  Spices   here  is  real  Andhra food  with all  its fiery  glory , served  in a traditional  setting  complete  with mud  pillars  and rangoli.
Southern  Spice  menu  gives  fair  representation  to all  the regional  flavors  of Andhra cuisine .
Along with Nellora vepudu (fish  fry ), don’t miss  the wholesome  jonne (jowar roti) with gongura mamsam  it is  as  close  as you can get  to tasting  ambrosia .
Give the desserts  a miss though – caramel  custard  after spiced  curd  rice ? 
If you are heading  here  during lunch  or dinner  hours , then  factor_in  a waiting  time  of at_least  15  minutes .
 :17 : You can instead , go_for  the Andhra breakfast , a fairly  recent  addition , binge  on kheema or egg  dosas and appams with kodi pulusu (chicken  curry ) and mamsam pulusu (mutton  curry ).
Irani Chaikhanas are dotted  in almost  every  corner  of the twin  cities  of Hyderabad  and Secunderabad: invariably  most have  creaky  tables  and parsimonious  owners , who are  reluctant  to switch_on  the fans .
However , one  loud  slurp  of the creamy  chai is  worth  all  the discomfort .
The perfect   accompaniments  are  the sweet  ‘n’ salty  Osmania biscuits  or the onion  filled  chhota samosas .
The legendary  Chaikhanas are  Alpha in Secunderabad (it apparently  serves   2 ,00 ,000  cups  of tea  daily ), Grand in Abids, besides  Shadab and Madina in the Charminar area .
Famous  Ice_Cream   this 50  year  old  parlor is  in an ill –kept  but charming  colonnade , in the heart  of a bustling  fruit  and vegetable  market .
The  locals  throng  here  for the no preservative ,  meltina–minute  ice_creams  made in cavernous  backrooms .
Depending  on the season , try  mango , fig , sapota  or sharifa flavors   you can’t eat  just  one .
Nanking is  a nondescript  restaurant  which initiated  Hyderabadis to Chinese  cuisine  and continues  to indulge  them with its conventional  yet  irresistible  fare . 
This was  for more_than  50  years , the only  place  Hyderabadis went_to  for Chinese  food  – even though it’s at the other  end  of the town , and always  noisy  and crowded .
After crispy  chicken  to_begin_with , move_on  to the hot  and spicy  wonton_soups  and try  
bamboo_shoot  noodles  with roast_pork  or lemon  chicken  for the main_course .
Sadly  Nanking's dingy  interiors  can be  a complete  put_off  but there's always  the takeaway : give the dessert  a miss.
Snow–white  interiors , avantgarde  furniture , muted  lights , soothing  music   this and stylish  rest bar  owned  by Telugu  film_star  Nagarjuna is  a good  place  to do  some  evening  ‘star ’ gazing .
The bar  is  well stocked  and the restaurant  has  risottos ,  ratatouille ,  bruschetta , etc.  with a smattering  of oriental  cuisine .
Both  the bar  and the restaurant  have  niches  and alcoves  for those who want  privacy .
Cosy  candle –lit  interiors , scrumptious  food , sparkling  wine  and the city   hip and happening  crowd  for company  make  F9 (Fusion 9 ) a  mustvisit .
The restaurant  serves  nine  cuisines  (hence  the name ) including  Vietnamese , Middle_Eastern  and Indonesian .
To do_justice  to the menu , stick_to  one  cuisine  for each  course .
Arabic  Kofta Kebab  and chicken  Satay make  great  starters ; the steaks  – fish , chicken  and tenderloin  – are  Fusion's specialty .
The name  is  misleading  – Dakshin is  in_fact  a  multi  cuisine  restaurant  in Vishakhapatanam.
Meat  lovers  swear  by this place  as heavily  partial  towards them; Dakshin's claim  to fame  is  the delectable  brain  fry , cooked  tender  with just  the right  amount  of spices .
But for some  reason  perhaps  not  to offend  its vegetarian  clientele  – the dish  isn’t listed  in the menu . 
But go  right  ahead and order  it, you will love  it.
 :40 : Quite  obviously , Hyderabadi biryani  tops  my list  of favorites , but close  contenders  are  Golconda Hotel  chapala pulusu and chicken  65 .
The vegetarian  fare  at Tirupati is  as  good  as the temple  laddu prasadam, the uluva pulusu at traditional  Nellore homes  is  also  good .
There are  arts  villages  as well as designer  stores  to entice  the shopper , read  on to know  what you shouldn't miss .
Right  next to the Charminar, this 400  year  old  market , Laad Bazaar  sells  everything from 
kitchen  implements  to diamond  jewellery .
Once  here , head  to the colorful  Churi Bazaar  first ;  shimmering  with the colorful  glass , metal  and the  mustbuy  stone –studded  lac  bangles .
The heavily  embroidered  zardosi saris  and dresses  will  make heads turn , even  though  most of them are  very  dressy .
Laad Bazaar  is  also  the heart  of Hyderabad  pearl  trade , but use  your discretion  and don't forget  to bargain .
Hyderabad  and Secunderabad are dotted  with pearl  traders  selling  strands  of loose  pearls  
as well as ready_made  and custom–made  jewellery .
If you can't tell  the real  from the fake , then strike  bargains  at the stalls  on Laad Bazaar  or Pathargatti, otherwise Mangatrai Pearls  and Jagdamba Pearls  are  two  big  names  that offer  the best, as well as at a reasonably  steep  price .
Window_shopping  can't get  any  better  than here , in Shilparamam.
Spread over  grassy  lawns  dotted  with rocks  and tinkling  waterfalls , this scenic  art  and crafts  village  lets  you buy  straight  from the artisan  even_as  you watch  them at_work .
Don't miss  a bargain  with the durrie weavers , stone  carvers  and the chatty  woman  selling  heavily  embroidered  Banjara skirts  and 
wall_hangings .
Pochampally the tiny  village  is  a home  to weavers  who use  the ikat (tie  and dye ) method  to make  Pochampalli saris  and fabric  colors  and bold  geometric  patterns .
This is  also  the best  place  to shop  for the saris .
So, pack  your lunch  (highway  motels  are 
best  avoided ) and head  for the Pocaampalli Handloom  Weaver  Cooperative  Society .
Bargain  even_as  you watch  the weavers  at their looms , some of the bright  reds , greens  and blacks  tend  to run , also  check  by rubbing  a tissue  or white  cloth  on the silk .
The names  are  as  exotic  as the fragrances , bottled  in crystal_clear  containers  RooheHina ( the spirit  of Hina) ZulfeUroos (the tresses  of a bride  ) and_so_on .
The best  place  to buy  attar  is  Charkaman in Hyderabad , the seller , probably  would be  an elderly  man  with kohl rimmed  eyes  and a wad  of cotton  tucked  behind his ear .
Take  your pick  from the mind–boggling  range  (some  shops  boast  of more_than  70  varieties ) Chameli, motia, gulab, (the ones derived  from flowers  can be  strong ), musk , amber, oud (derived  from a tree  bark ) and even  matti (derived  from damp  earth  soon  after the first  summer  rain ).
If you want  to experiment  and have  your cocktail  attar , try  Nizam Attar  (Charkaman) or Hyderabadi perfumes  (Pathargatti).
A 10  ml  vial  can cost  anything between Rs. 800  to Rs. 8 ,000 .
Kalanjali Arts and Crafts is  a  onestop  shop  for all  things  Andhra – silk  and cotton  fabric , linen , stone  and wood_carvings , floor_coverings , furniture .
This three storeyed  shop  (between other  shops  with same  name ) has  one of the finest  collections  of sculptures  in Hyderabad .
It's also  one of the best  places  to buy  lacework   crotchet , made by artisans  of the west  and east  Godavari districts .
The prices  are  steep , but not  enough   to burn holes in your pocket ; the store  also  has  home  delivery  service , to save  you the trouble  of transporting  bigger  purchases .
Andhra pickles  taste  exactly  as  they look – red  hot  and fiery , the bestseller is  the tangy  pickled  gongura leaf , which is  unique  to the state .
Close  contenders  are  the many  varieties  of avakkai (mango ) tamarind  and the red  hot  chilli  pickle  (that makes  even  the natives  break_out  in sweat).
To watch  an entire  village  transform  logs  of lightcolored  wood  (called  Tella Poniki by  locals ) into smiling  gods  and goddesses , cherubic  children  or colorful  birds , visit  Kondapllli.
Come  here , shop  in bulk , and take  home  the bright  but brittle  toys  for anything between Rs. 10  and Rs. 10 ,000 .
The prices  here  will be  at_least  25  percent  less_than  what the fancy  emporia  in Vijaywada and Hyderabad  charge .
About  35  kms  from Tirupati, the temple  town  of Kalahasti is  the best  place  to buy  kalamkari fabric .
Kalamkari, deriving  it's name  from Kalam(pen ) and Kari(work ), stands  for the busy  patterns  on the cloth  painted  with colors  made from seeds , flower  and even  cow_dung  ! 
The theme  could be  anything  from Ramayana , the Mahabharata  to anything  around  – trees , birds  and animals .
 :80 : To catch  the painters  at_work , walk  into Vijaylakshmi Kalamkari Arts on Agraham street .
The customer friendly  fashion  store  in Hyderabad , Elahe is  housed  in a bungalow , which has been converted  to suit  the requirements  of an outlet .
This is  a place  to shop  for clothes  and jewellery  by leading  Indian  designers  like Rohit Bal, Wendell Rodericks, Sabyasachi, Anju Modi, Anamika Khanna and many  more.
This 3 ,000  square_feet  store  also  offers  home  accessories  and furnishings  along with knickknacks .
I like  to buy  elegant  Mangalagiri handloom  products  from Mangalgiri village  itself: for ethnic  handbags  I go  to the various  malls  and handicraft  centers .
The Lepakshi showrooms  are  good  for silver  and wooden  accessories , and Pulla Reddy is  the last_word  on traditional  Andhra sweets . 
There's the dazzle  of the Nizam's city  as well as 
picture  perfect  gateway  to keep  travelers  coming  to this southern  state .
Charminar – the graceful  tower  stands_for  everything Hyderabadi – it is  a confluence  of cultures , royal  past  and the life  that is  alive  and buzzing  like the markets  around it.
The Charminar is  spectacular  at night  when it is  lit_up , and if you can climb_up  the spiral  staircase  to the ramparts , you can see  the dream  the city ’s founder  Quli Qutb Shah had  in mind  when he ordered  the capital  to be  embellished  by mosque , bazaars , and palaces .
Durgam Cheruvu: hidden  by hills  and rocks , the lake  serenity , despite its proximity  of the city  comes  as a surprise .
Spend  the afternoon  paddle boating  or lolling  on shikaras; when hungry , pitch  your hook  to catch  fish .
There is  a bar  and restaurant  near the lake  to drown  your sorrow  and fill  your stomach .
As dusk  falls , the surrounding  rocks , light_up , a fountain  springs_up  in the middle  of the lake  and its time  to head  back .
Durgam Ceruvu is  near Madhapur, just  beyond Shilparamam and Hitec City  in Hyderabad , boats  and angling  equipments  are  available  on hire .
Every  man  in this Kuchipudi Village  can dance , they say , as a tribute , perhaps , to Siddhendra Yogi and the dance  form  he conceived  of and nurtured  in this place .
The Siddhendra Yogi's dilapidated  dance_school  has today  been transformed  into a lovely  fine_arts  college  called  Siddhendra Kalakshetra.
Resounding  with foot  tappings  and mridangam beats , it’s a  mustvisit  for every  art  lover .
Every  February  –March  there is  a dance  Festival  held  here  called  Siddhendra Yogi Dance  Festival .
From Hyderabad , catch  an overnight  train  to Vijaywada , Kuchipudi village  is  a 60  km  drive  from there , for an overnight  stay , there's Vijaywada's Grand Residency at Prakasam Road .
Atop a granite  hill , Golconda has  every  reason  to be  proud  – it defied  the mighty  Moghuls  for eight  months  before intrigue  and betrayal  led  to its fall .
The secret  of impregnability  – a ring  of three  massive  walls ; a system  of pipes  and pumps  that ensures  unending  water_supply ; and incredible  acoustics .
One  clap  at the gate  would travel  seven  levels  up  to the fort .
To relive  the fort  grand  days  catch   the light and sound show  held  every  evening  (November  February : 6 :30  to 7 :30  p.m. ; March October  7 8  p.m. ).
In the background  of the show  there are  Gazals by Jagjit Singh and the narrator  is   none other  than Amitabh Bachchan.
On your way  back  stop  at the Paigah tombs , a landscaped  garden  where the entire  Qutb Shahi clan  is  buried ; Paigah is  about  a kilometer  from the fort .
Golconda fort  is  an easy  13  kilometers  from Hyderabad  city , take  a luxury  bus , taxi  or an  autorikshaw  to reach  there .
The imposing  structure  of Salarjung Museum  is  a treat  in itself.
The museum  has  an aweinspiring  collection  of 40 ,000  exhibits , collected  over  35  years  by one  person  Mir Yusuf Ali Khan Salar Jung III, the prime_minister  to the Nizam.
The connoisseur  gave_up  his post  around  1914  to build  this vast  collection  of Indian  and European  sculptures , Persian  carpets , Chinese  jade  and Japanese  porcelain .
