Where else  would you find  kheer made  of oranges ? This one  is  really  special . 
Each  orange  segment  is peeled ,  de seeded  and allowed  to soak  in sugar  while milk  is simmered  for hours  in a thick bottomed  pan  till it reduces  to half .
Once  that consistency  is reached , the milk  is allowed  to cool  and oranges  added . 
It is served  chilled  and its velvety  texture , with the tang  of oranges , is  divine . 
 :4 : Since Assam  is  the land  of various  species  of bamboo , it comes  as no  surprise  that it is  such an integral  part  of Assamese  cuisine .  
Bamboo_shoot  fry  is  a great  introduction  to the vegetable ; the shoots  are cut  into stripes and fried  with fenugreek_seeds , salt  and chillies  to make  the  lip smacking  dish .
 :5 : You will find  it in most  Assamese   eateries . 
In a typical  Assamese  meal , khar is  a mandatory  appetizer , eaten  with a little  rice . 
It is extracted  from the skin  of the plantain  and added  to curries , typically  with vegetables  and fish  heads , for a piquant  taste . 
End  the meal  with tenga anja, fish  in tomato  gravy , also  cooked  with other  vegetables  like lauki and  ridge gourd .  
The taste  of tenga varies  from region  to region , but you really  can not  miss  it. 
The famous  and distinctive  bamboo_shoot  pickle  you’ll find  included  in every  meal , kharisa is made of bamboo_shoots  pickled  with a paste  of mustard_seeds  and soaked  in mustard_oil . 
I feel  proud , even  fortunate , to be  an Assamese . 
Appreciation  of our food  needs  to be cultivated . Its gentle  flavors  and distinctive  tastes  are  unlike  any  other. 
As for shopping , buy  muga silk  when you visit , and return  with reams  of the lovely  cloth  made  by the people . 
Bamboo , cane  and jute  are moulded  into just_about   everything under the sun  in Assam . 
Some of the more  interesting  offerings  include  bamboo  beer_mugs , cane  coffee_table  sets , bamboo  spear  collections  (useful  against stray burglars ), and jaapi, the traditional  sunshade  said  to be  in use  since the time  of Hiuen Tsang. 
Pick_up  jute  hammocks  for your back  garden  and some  funky  bamboo  jewellery . 
How can you leave  Assam  without the tea  that makes  it so  wellknown  the world  over ? That’s right , you can’t. 
There are  848  plantations  in the state , which all  produce  tea  with subtly  different  flavours .
Choose  from the popular  Dejoo Estate, Dinjoye Estate (long  leaf ), Harmutty (malty) or Meleng (fullbodied ) in tea  shops  in Pan Bazaar  and Fancy Bazaar . 
Jorhat in upper  Assam  means  different  things  to different  people   for the Vaishnavite, it is all  about piety , for the tea  hub , and for those who love  the glitter  of jewellery , Jorhat is  pure  gold .
You won’t have to look  far  to find  traditional  Assamese  lockets , earrings , bracelets  and necklaces . 
Guwahati is  full  of shops  to keep you on your feet and your wallet  outside your pocket . 
Fancy Bazaar  and Pan Bazaar  are dotted  with emporia .
In Pan Bazaar , look  out for the roadside  evening  markets  that sell  all  kinds  of handicrafts .
Purabshree on GNB Road  stocks  the best  handlooms  and handicrafts  from all_over  the northeast , and is  a good  place  to pick_up  silks  (endi, muga and paat). 
Khadi Gram Udyog on GNB Road  is  perfect  for handmade  paper , leather  and khadi . 
But if an emporium  is  not  our cup of (Assam) tea, try  the Assam  Weavers  and Artisans  Cooperative  in industrial  estate  for lovely  silks , textile  and bamboo  handicrafts .
Finally , for a trusted  name  all_over  the state , look  for the Pragiyotika emporium  ( Richa Bari in Guwahati). 
It’s difficult  to stop  shopping  in Assam , so we won’t ask  you to try . 
Make  a trip  to the Batadrava area  of Nagaon district  for Kuhila Koth, which is woven  on a simple  loom  to create  mats  and cushions  of various  interesting  textures .
Try  the Cachar district , where quilt making  is  an industry  in itself, for authentic  Laichangpi quilts , perfect  for the winter . 
Famed  for its brass  and metal  handicrafts , Sarthebari, a township  near Guwahati, is  the best  place  to buy  souvenirs  for your home . 
If you’re religious , a  must buy  is  the traditional  Guru Simhasana, a stand  for your deity , made  of 
bell_metal .
Only  in Assam  you will find  golden  silk  called  muga, known  and loved  for its sheen  and inimitable  texture . 
Out of this is woven  the traditional  Assamese  dress  for women   mekhla, a cross between a sarong  and a lungi , and chadar  worn  with a particular  crisscross  pleat  down the front .
Traditionally , red , green  and black  were used  to offset  the natural  gold  of the muga silk  mekhlas all_over  Guwahati, but for a truly  dazzling  variety  to choose  from, head  to the small  village  of Sualkuchi, called  the Manchester  of the East . 
This is  the best  place  to buy  it, worth  the short  drive . 
A complete  understanding  of the Indian  civilization  is  incomplete  without a trip  to Bihar , once  the hotbed  of creativity  and the land  of enlightenment .  
It is  here  that Buddha  attained  enlightenment , it is  the land  where the Maurya dynasty  flourished , it is  here  that  Lord  Rama ’s consort, Sita , was  born , it is  here  that  Lord  Mahavira attained   salvation , and it is  also  what the Sikh  guru , Gobind Singh, called  home .
Historians  from the world  over  have written  about places  like Rajgir, Bodhgaya, Nalanda, Vaishali and Patana.
Tourist , from all  corners  of the globe , still  pours  in to see  the marvels  of Bihar , as  old  as the Indian  culture . 
Bihar , of_course , offers  much  more  to the intrepid  traveler    the scenic  foothills  of the Himalayas  to the plateau  and forests , religious  fairs and festivals , and a bouquet  of arts  and craft . 
Madhubani paintings , Bihar ’s most  famous  export , is  now  synonymous  with the state . 
What started_off  as a humble  art  in the household  of Mithila, is  now  an art  statement . 
Bihar ’s landscape , dotted  with hills , waterfalls , villages  and historical  sites , is  as  varied  and colourful  as the lac  bangles  that adorn  a bride ’s arms . 
It is   also  a land  of good  food . 
The litchis  and mangoes  that grow  here  are a treat  that Biharis look_forward  to every  year , which taste  better  when eaten  in the   company  of friends  and family . 
There are  hotels  and more  hotels  in Bodhgaya.
One  very  good  reason  to choose  the Nikko is  its location   it is   a mere  five minute  walk  from the Mahabodi temple .
That saves  the hassle  of taking  a cab  or  the meandering  of the crowded  streets  in a  rickshaw .
Hotel  Maurya is  imposing  and it is  in the heart  of Patna. 
It was  also  the first   fivestar  hotel  in Bihar . 
 :53 : Maurya hotel  is  known  for its decor   in the Oriental  rooms  there are  Chinese  motif  like dragons  and mandarins .
The Residency apartments are  ohso British  while the Grant Prix suite  is  all  about cane   even  the refrigerator  is concealed  by a cane  exterior .
The taste  of this sohan papdi is  unlike  anything  the ones you get  in packets . 
Sweet  and  sinfully  rich , the ones from Buxar are made  of very  thin  strands .
 :56 : The brittle  sohan papdi breaks  before you can take  a bite , even  as you hold  it between your fingers .
There couldn’t be  a more  delicious  combination  of til (sesame_seeds ) and jaggery  (gur).
Only  the karigars (workers ) from Gaya are believed  to be  the masters  of the art  of making  tilkut.
They pound  the til and gur together  to make  the heavenly  rounds . 
The anarsa from Gaya, a close  cousin  of the tilkut, is  also  a  musttry 
It is made  of rice  powder  and sugar /gur, deepfried  and then  generously  sprinkled  with til.
 :61 : Litchis  are  in the market  for barely  a fortnight , but the Shahi variety  of Muzaffarpur is  arguably  the best  litchi  in world . 
It is  juicy , fleshy  and sweet . 
It may not  be  a feasible  idea  to carry  these litchis  home , but do pick_up  a bunch  and dig into the fleshy  bites . 
You can also  go_for  the tasty  litchi  sherbet . 
Mango , the king  of fruits , in its Dudhiya Malda avatar , is  an asset  of Bihar .
Mangoes  too  are  available  for only  a few  weeks . 
These big  mangoes , with a very  thin  skin , are  succulent  and juicy . 
It is  extremely  fibrous  and the foodie  usually  prefers  biting  into it and not  having  it peeled  and diced . 
They are  expensive  but worth  every  rupee .
Belgrami, this sweet  wonder  is made  of just  two  ingredients , sugar  and cottage_cheese .
You will find  the best  Belgrami in the unlikeliest of places   the Bihar  Assembly in Patna.
Feast  on Belgrami in the Assembly cafeteria  over a hot  cuppa . 
The khaja traces  its origins  to the Mauryan era . Now , it’s available  in Patna, Gaya and even  West_Bengal . 
It’s said  the khajas of Silao are  distinctly  superior  to the rest . 
The puffy  khajas are made  of wheat_flour , mawa and oil . 
It is  deep_fried  until its crisp  and dipped  in thick_sugar_syrup  called  pak.
Silao khajas don’t look  different  or aren’t made  with any  secret  ingredient , yet  the place  is  now  synonymous  with the crispy  croissants .
Maner was  once  the haunt  of Sufi  saints . 
Today , only  gourmands  visit  the place , allured  by its delicious  ladddoos. 
Maner laddoos are made  of  gram  flour , mixed  with almonds , pressed  into rounds  and fried  in ghee .
 :80 : There’s no  secret  ingredient  that makes  the laddoos unique  in taste , but the  locals  say  it’s the Maner ‘air ’ that  does the trick . 
These laddoos are served  at weddings , engagements  and festivals . 
Walk  into any sweet  shop  in Maner and gorge  on these laddoos. 
For once , you can put_aside  your calorie  worries . 
Bhagalpur, the best  place  to buy  silk , is  a city  also  known_as  the silk  city .
The tussar, almost  paper_thin , is  the traveler ’s favorite  buy , as also  the beige  handwoven  chadar used  in early  winters . 
The Dahil Tola Lane  and Chandi Patti are lined  with silk  shops . 
Lac  bangles :  these attractive  bangles  are a bride ’s accessories  in Bihar . 
Lac  bangles  come  especially  from Muzaffarpur, all  handcrafted  and embellished  with stones , beads  or mirrors . 
You can also  pick_up  knickknacks  in lac  for the house .
Though in a state  of decline , a community  of 500  people  in Gaya, mostly  Gaur Brahmins , has kept   stonecraft  alive . 
Today , they make  idols , glasses , ashtrays  and bowls  out of the greygreen  stone . 
You also  find  black  stone  tableware  and platters . 
Sikki, also  known_as  the golden  grass  craft , is  an art  unique  to Bihar  practiced  by women  only .  
They make  baskets , containers , trinkets , handheld  fans  and even  coasters  from the golden  grass  that grows  in Madhubani’s marshy  areas .
Madhubani paintings : this ancient  art  is  now  the state ’s hottest  export .
Madhubani paintings , famous  for its intricate  tribal  motifs , are also  done  on saris , dupattas and kurtas . 
The paintings  come_with  a steep  price_tag . 
Before you bargain , remember , the black  colour  comes  from cow  dung , the yellow  from turmeric , the green  from the leaves  of apple_tree  and the red  from sandalwood .
I have seen  many  markets  across the globe , but I find  none as colourful  and bustling  as the ones in Patna. 
I did  my shopping  from the Patna market  and the nearby  Hathuna market . 
My favorite  tailor  was  Rauf Miyan of Dress Co tailors , who stitched  all  my suits , shirts  and trousers .
