The  creator  has been  most  generous  to Chhattisgarh, endowing  it with immense  natural  wealth   bountiful  forests , magnificent  lakes , mighty  rivers  and sparkling  waterfalls . 
 :2 : Dense  forests  cover  more_than  50  percent  of Chhattisgarh, India ’s ninth  largest  state , with an area  of 1 ,36 ,000   sq km .
 :3 : The forests  are  a treasure_trove  of rare  and exotic  flora  and fauna . 
 :4 : Chhattisgarh is  also  home  to many indigenous  tribes  and communities . 
 :5 : The state  is  an ideal   getaway  for the traveler  tired  of overcrowded   hill stations  and beaches . 
 :6 : Most of the tourist  spots  in Chhattisgarh are waiting  to be explored . 
 :7 : Dotted  with ancient  monuments , exquisitely  carved  temples , unique  Buddhist  sites , palaces , caves , rock  paintings  and plateaus , Chhattisgarh has  something  for everyone  the nature  lover , the lover  of spiritualism . 
 :8 : It is  impressively  progressive  in its political  and administrative  outlook .
 :9 : Bhoramdeo jungle  retreat , Kawardha, set  amid forests , with the Maikal hills  rising  gently  in the background , and the silence  broken  only  by the chirping  of birds , this red  roofed  farmhouse  offers  comfortable , clean  rooms  and reasonably  good  food .
 :10 : From here , you can trek  up to the hills , or go  on excursions  to the tribal  villages  in the vicinity .
 :11 : Owned  by the Kanker royal_family , Royal Bastar Farm , Jagdalpur, has  quaint  little  cottages  (some made  only  of mud ) that are decorated  with vivid  tribal  motifs . 
 :12 : You can enjoy  traditional  meals  in a charming  thatched  pavilion , surrounded  by the music  of chirruping  crickets .
 :13 : The owners  will  go out of their way  to ensure  that you develop  more_than  just  a passing  acquaintance  with tribal  art  and culture . 
 :14 : Chitrakote Falls  Campsite , Bastar:  perched  above the Chitrakote Falls , a mere  40  km  from Jagdalpur are  luxury  tents  and log  huts  that afford  spectacular  view  of the torrential  waters . 
 :15 : Run  by the state  tourism  board , each  tent  is  spacious  enough  for a double  bedroom , with an attached  bathroom  and a verandah  where you will be  close  enough  to hear  the waterfall  roaring  and hissing  as it plunges  down .  
 :16 : Here  you may even  be treated  to a Gedi dance  show , in which tribal  dancers  perform  on stilts   a throwback  to the time  when people  walked  on stilts  to avoid  snakes . 
 :17 : If you want  to give  yourself ample  time  to explore  the Kanger Valley National_Park  and the rich  tribal  culture  of Bastar, the place  to stay  is  Naman Bastar Resort  in a village  near Jagdalpur. 
 :18 : Surrounded  by mango  groves  and rice  fields  are  about  a dozen  attractive  red roofed  cottage , each with a balcony  where you can spend  peaceful  moments  savouring  the picturesque  view .
 :19 : Once  a residence  for British  officers , this imposing  mansion  at the foot  of the rocky  Keshkal hills  became  the palace  of the Kanker royal_family  who still  live  here . 
 :20 : You can stay  in one  of the five  spacious  suites , some with aging  punkahs , each with its own  verandah . 
 :21 : Recalling  a long  gone  era , bisons , leopards  and deer  stare   glassily  from the walls . 
 :22 : Meals , cooked  using  produce  from the palace  farm , are served  in the grand  dining_hall ; don’t be  surprised  if the friendly  members  of the royal_family  join  you for dinner .
 :23 : Palace  Kawardha, set  against scenic  paddy_fields  and the Maikal foothills , and surrounded  by beautiful  lawns , the Italian  marble andstone  palace  boasts  grand  staircase , large  high ceilinged  rooms , and sweeping  verandahs . 
 :24 : Although the royal_family  still  lives  on the top  floor , you can stay  in one of the six  rather  ornately  decorated  rooms . 
 :25 : Enjoy  a leisurely  drink  in the cosy  bar  or just  relax  on the comfortable  sofas  of the grand  Durbar  Hall .
 :26 : The only  way  to sample  traditional  tribal  food  is  if you’re invited  to a Gond  or Baiga home  (easy  if you spend  a day  or two  at the Bhoramdeo Jungle  Retreat , Kawardha (or any of the larger  stay  options ), where the owner  arrange  visits  to the local  villages ).
 :27 : The staple  fare  is  usually  gruel  made  of hand  pounded  unpolished rice  with chana dal, sometimes  accompanied  by tender  young  bamboo_shoots  or roti made  from crushed  bamboo  seeds . 
 :28 : A delicacy  is  a chutney  made  from red ants (yes , ants !) soaked  in water  and then  ground  together  with garlic  and green  chillies    believe it or not , it’s quite  palatable  once  you  open your mind  to it. 
 :29 : Dessert  is  no  ordinary  affair  either : singhara (water_chestnuts ) are crushed  and used  to make  a rather  herbal tasting  halwa.
 :30 : What is  little  known  is  that sal butter , made  by the Gonds  from the seeds  of the sal tree , is used  as an ingredient  for international  brands  of chocolate .
 :31 : The Mahua tree  is  for Chhattisgarh what potatoes  are  for Russians . 
 :32 : Every  part  of tree  is  
 :33 : put  to use  the fried  flowers  for snacks , the leaves  cooked  as a vegetable  and a kind  of oil  extracted  from the fruit , said  to be  richer  and tastier  than ghee . 
 :34 : Mahua flowerbuds  also  make  a delicious  sweet . 
 :35 : For a kick , it’s Mahua liquor , distilled  from dried  Mahua flowers . 
 :36 : Another  alcoholic  drink  is  Sulfi, a milky  drink  made  from the fermented  sap  of the sago_palm  tree . 
 :37 : A traditional  Chhattisgarhi breakfast  staple  is  Bafuri. 
 :38 : A deepfried  ball  of chana dal (split  seeds  of gram) paste  crushed  with green  coriander_leaves , green  chillies , salt  and oil , and often  delicately  flavoured  with dried  Methi (fenugreek ) leaves . 
 :39 : Said  to have  an instant  revitalizing  effect , magically  banishing  fatigue , this wholesome  snack  is  worth  trying  also  because of its unique  taste   a bit  like a pakora but not  quite . 
 :40 : Dozens  of special  rice  varieties  are grown  in Bilaspur, known_as  the ‘Dhan ka katora’ (rice  bowl ).
 :41 : The most  fragrant  is  the famous  short grained  doobraj rice , which you can take  home  to add  an unusual  touch  to your dinner .
 :42 : Set_up  about  30  years  ago  to cater  to hungry  commuters  using  Raipur’s old  bus  stand , Sahu Jalebi Bhandar soon  became  a landmark  in town . 
 :43 : People  flock  here  in the early  morning  for a hearty  breakfast   a mix  of poha (rice  flakes  soaked  in water  and then  dried ) spiced  with fried  onions , sev (deep_fried  and spiced  gram flour ) and coriander_leaves .
 :44 : Finished  with hot  Jalebis, swirls  of syrup doused  concoctions  fried  in sinful  quantities  of ghee . 
 :45 : A tremendous  variety  of baskets , intricately  woven  by tribal  artisans  out of bamboo  (the name  Bastar comes  from baans, which means  bamboo ) can be picked_up  at the weekly  haats.
 :46 : Woven  for purposes  such as fishing , catching  birds , storing  grain  and filtering  liquor . 
 :47 : You will not  find  such  craftsmanship  anywhere  else . 
 :48 : Most  appealing  are  the square  baskets  fashioned  by the Bansors (basketeers), who paint  colourful  animal  and human  figures  on the chequered  surfaces . 
 :49 : One of the most  amazing  sights  that you will come_across  in the depths  of the forests  are  long  cocoons  hung  from trees  branches  to dry . 
 :50 : Ensconced  in them are  tussar silk  caterpillars , which are fed  on saja and arjuna trees  and then  taken  to the Kosa Silk Farm  in Jagdalpur.
 :51 : In Kosa Silk Farm , the silken  cocoon  threads  are spun  into the gorgeous  and famous  Bastar Kosa saris .
 :52 : The Dupattas, cotton  saris  and other  fabrics  woven  by Bastar’s artisans  are distinguished  by their bold  tribal  motifs  in natural  dyes . 
 :53 : You can really   cut a dash  with these. 
 :54 : Stark , black  and ingeniously  crafted  into unlikely  shapes , the world famous  wrought_iron  artifacts  of Bastar possess  a strange , primitive  beauty  that you will never  see  elsewhere . 
 :55 : Whether it’s a figurine  of a hunter  in frozen  motion  or something  as  mundane  as a garden_chair . 
 :56 : You will want  to take  home  one of these creations . 
 :57 : Wood  from Bastar’s teak  and sal forests  are shaped  into richly  carved  wooden  idols , masks  with tribal  motifs , wall_panels  and furniture  that you can pick_up  by the dozen  along the road . 
 :58 : Especially  attractive  are  the unusual  diwans, ornamented  with vivid  depictions  of Bastar life .
 :59 : The finely  handcrafted  ornaments   are sold  in Bastar’s haat  
 :60 : peacock  feathers  wound  with bamboo  and vividly  colored  glass  beads  to make  gorgeous  necklaces , iron  twisted  into chunky  bracelets  embellished  with stylized  figures , waist  belts  made  of cowrie  shells  and so  much  more . 
 :61 : The ornamental  metal  or wood  combs  in animal  or bird  shapes  make  great  souvenirs . 
 :62 :  Arrestingly   fashioned  into elephants , horses , deer , masks  and human  figures  by the hot  wax  casting  technique  known_as  dhokra, the metal  artifacts  of Baster are  recognized  the world  over .
 :63 : With their elongated , twisted  forms , they are reminiscent  of the Indus  Valley  Civilization  artifacts .
 :64 : Potters  to create  beautiful  horses , tortoise , elephants , bells , decorative  pots  and urns , ashtrays  and pen  holders  gather  clay  from the Indravati riverbed . 
 :65 : Darjeeling, with its unending  stretches  of fragrant  tea  garden , is  a decadent  reminder  of times  past . 
 :66 : Full  of little  hideaways , old  and luxurious  tea  estate , and winding  roads  offering  amazing  view , Darjeeling possesses  a charm  of its very  own . 
 :67 : Even  though it’s one of the most  popular  destinations  in India , it is  still  possible  to make  it your own . 
 :68 : A ride  on the famous  narrow_gauge  Toy  Train , which has been declared  a World  Heritage  Site , will show_off  its landscape  at its best .
 :69 : For those seeking  peace  and quiet , away  from the maddening  crowds , there are  several  beautiful  
 :70 : Tibetan  monasteries  holding  ancient  treasures , Japanese  temples  and stunning  sunrises  over the snowy  Khangchendzonga.
 :71 : Visit  Mirid to walk  through gardens  strewn  with flowers  and thick  forests .
 :72 : Perfect  in any  season , Darjeeling is  the stuff  dreams  are made  of.
 :73 : Give_in  to its allure , and have  an enchanted  stay . 
 :74 : Windarmere Hotel , the grand  dame  of Darjeeling started_out  as a humble  boarding_house  for English  bachelors . 
 :75 : Just  before_World_War_II  it was turned  into a hotel  with large  rooms , deep  fireplaces  and baize  billiard_tables . 
 :76 : Today  it is reinvented  as a heritage  hotel , pricey  and exclusive . 
 :77 : Perched  on Observatory Hill , it offers  a spectacular  view ; watch  the winding  roads , or glimpse  the Kanchenjunga  from your bathtub .
 :78 : You can also  treat  yourself to an impressive  
 :79 : afternoon_tea , accompanied  by a string_quartet  or pianist . 
 :80 : Authentic  down to its creaking  floorboards , the Planter’s Club  offers  you a charming  glimpse  into tea_garden  luxury . 
 :81 : The cannon  on the front_porch  looks  out onto the Mall , while stuffed  antlered  heads  stare  down  at visitors  from wooden  plaques  fighting  for space  on the walls .
 :82 : At one happy  time , the Club  was  the meeting_place  for every  planter  in the whole  of the Dooars. 
 :83 : Today , it takes_in  guests  from all_over  the country  as temporary  members , so you have no  excuse  to miss  out.
 :84 : Glenary’s is  extremely  popular  and usually  crowded . 
 :85 : The restaurant  upstairs  is  famed  for its delicious  tandoori fare , while The Buzz in the basement  holds  jam_sessions .
 :86 : The master  baker ’s place  is  where everyone heads  for tea  or coffee  and pastries  all  day . 
 :87 : The windows  in the tearooms  are designed  to catch  the afternoon  sun  and frame  the view  down  into the valley . 
 :88 : It may have  simple  decor , but you’ll find  the best  Tibetan  food  in town  at Kunga. 
 :89 : Its delicious  momos and gyathuk  and bhagthuk soup  are  legendary .
 :90 : If you’re around  for breakfast , drop_in  for its simple , filling  and absolutely  yummy  muesli  and fruit  yoghurt .
 :91 : Treat  yourself to a hearty  breakfast  of bacon  and sausages , accompanied  by steaming  lemon  tea , on the rooftop  at Keventer’s. 
 :92 : Kanchenjunga  might reveal  herself from under a veil  of clouds .
 :93 : The restaurant  faces  the planter’s club  and under its awning , you will find  people  gathering  to feast  all  day , sometimes  starting  from dawn ! 
 :94 : Glenburn Tea  Estate : the path  to this tea  estate  might challenge  a mountain_goat , but no  one’s complaining . 
 :95 : Glenburn is  one of the tea_gardens  in Darjeeling to take_in  guests . 
 :96 : The rooms  are named  and have  themes  to match   the Rose has  sheets  and pillowcases  embroidered  with roses , for_example , and have  splendid  mountain  views  and cane  furniture .
 :97 : Go  fishing  or boating  in the river  and 
 :98 : take  along  a picnic  basket .
 :99 : Remember  to slip_in  the hotel ’s scrumptious  brownies  for a treat . 
 :100 : Darjeeling is  Bengal ’s dream .
 :101 : For hospitality , nothing  beats  the Mayfair and Windamere hotels . 
 :102 : Savour  the silences  of late  afternoon  and watch  the hills  go_by  from the Toy  Train .
 :103 : I’m not  much  of a shopper , but I like  the handicrafts  in Darjeeling.  
 :104 : I never  leave  without some of Keventer’s chocolates .
