Darjeeling tea  is loved  the world  over  for its distinctive  flavour  and Nathmulls is  a great  place  to buy  the finest .
Real  tea  lovers  can even  tell  a Darjeeling  Selimbong harvested  in spring  from the same  tea  picked  in early  summer  or autumn !
If you prefer  loose  tea  (which is  cheaper ), head  to Chowk Bazaar . 
Habeeb Mullick & Sons, this historic  curio  shop , impossible  to miss  in the Mall , was set_up  in 1890  and has  about it the look  of Alladin’s cave , a dark  interior  draped  with wood  carvings , bronze  and carpets . 
You can buy  just_about  anything  in the way  of handicrafts  there , although you may have to bargain . 
Take  a dekko  at the photographs  behind the counter   they date  from the shop ’s early  days  when it used  to trade  in fur .
Tibetan  Refugee  SelfHelp  Center , set_up  in 1959 , when the 13 th  Dalai_Lama  took  refuge  in India  (you can see  the foundations  of his house ), this centre  has  on offer  outstanding  carpets , thangkas, wood_carving , metalwork  and all  kinds  of Tibetan  curios , including  masks .
They make  carpets  to_order  and there are  traditional  workshops  open  to visitors .
For those who want  to travel  to beautiful , undisturbed  natural  areas , Jharkhand is  a destination  par_excellence . 
Tourism  is  certainly  not  merely  passing_through  an area  here . 
It involves  studying , appreciating , enjoying  flora  and fauna   and above_all , knowing  the culture  of the original inhabitants  of the area .
Jharkhand, in_other_words , is  a kaleidoscope  of nature  tourism . 
The state  has mesmerised  many  a visitor  with its hills  and numerous  rivulets  that gush  down the slopes  and waterfalls . 
It is  best  known  for its lush  green  and dense  forests , particularly  the sal forests  of Saranda.
There are  11  National_Parks  across the state   tigers  silently  stalk  in Palamau, elephants  march  majestically  in Dalma and deer  dash  around  everywhere . 
In_addition , Jharkhand is  a pilgrim ’s privilege    Deogarh, Rajrappa, Jagannath temple , Sun  temple  and Parasnath are  just  a few  such  places  of reverence .
Sitting  snug  inside Betla National_Park   a tiger  reserve  and one of the most  thickly  forested  tracts  in Jharkhand  is  the quaint  two bedroom  Tree_House , advertised  by nothing  more_than  a rather  dilapidated  board . 
Athough the house , with its rickety  little  verandah , is  quite  like a shack , its charm  lies  in, well, the fact  that it is perched  on a tree .
But all  the minibars  and LCD  panels  in the world  cannot compare  with the stunning  view  of the forest  that this place  affords .
Wait  for the evening  to see  hundreds  of  spotted deer  roaming  amid the teak  trees , their eyes  glistering  like diamonds  in the night . 
Jump  out of your bed  in the morning  and hop  onto a jeep .
 Keep an eye out  for mouse_deer  and pangolins , visit  the Palamau Fort  nearby  and catch  a bite  to eat  at the canteen  in the other   touristier  lodge  inside the park .  
The Kusumi Rest_House , not  too  far  from Betla National_Park , is  the tree_house  in Maromar. 
Sitting  atop  a Kusumi tree , this charming  two room  lodging  facility  looks  like something  Robinson_Crusoe  might have built . 
Made  entirely  of wood , the rooms  are  comfortable  and quite  adequately  equipped  with modern  facilities .
The swankiest  hotel  in the capital , Capitol Hill has  the advantage  of being  in the heart  of the city . 
With its shopping  arcade  and the trendy  coffee_shop  on the mezzanine  floor , this place  is  ideal  from those who are looking_for  a more  luxurious  break . 
Each  room  has  internet  facilities , a well stocked  minibar  and 24 hour  room  service . 
The restaurant  serves  good  Continental , Chinese  and tandoori fare . 
Hotel  Yuvraj calls  itself only  a  four star  hotel  in Ranchi  and the claim  is quite  justified . 
Yuvraj Palace  sits  right  in the heart  of the city  and is  a cool  oasis  from the heat  and dust  outside . 
Inside , you will be greeted  by a fine  collection  of Rajasthani Paintings  and stay  in elegant , wellappointed  suites .  
Forest  Bungalow  Rest_house :  Right  on the bank  of the Barakar river , in the district  of Koderma, this new  pink andwhite  rest_house  is  the closest  that you will get  to a beach_house  anywhere  in the state .
The 12  rooms  are pleasantly  furnished  and you can get  a decent  meal  if you can inform  the staff  in_advance . 
Enjoy  splendid  views  of the reservoir , walk  down the sandy  banks  or take  a ride  in the huge  boats  that can seat  up to 20  people .
As far as locations  go , it doesn’t get  much  better  than this
Within Asia ’s largest  and densest  sal forest  lies  the SAIL rest_house , the best  lodging  available  in this scenic  location .
Poised  on top  of a hill , this place  offers  wonderful  views  of the rising  and setting  sun . 
Walk  in the shade  of the statuesque  trees  and return  in the evening  to watch  the forest  turn  slowly  from gold  to ebony . 
The Boulevard Hotel , Jamshedpur: conveniently  located  in the heart  of Jamshedpur, this stately  matron  of a hotel  has been  around  for 
more_than  50  years . 
Walk  out of the door  and step  right  into the best  shops  in the swanky  Bistupur area .
Palamau Bungalow : Netarhat, known_as  the ‘Queen  of the Chhotanagpur Plateau ’, is  famous  for the sunrises  and sunset  views  afforded  from Magnolia Point .
As  good  a vantage_point  is  this pretty  bungalow , surrounded  by pine  and fruit  trees . 
Go  to the observatory  to watch  the rising  sun  turn  the Koel River  into a crimson  ribbon .
Rather  than stay  at one of the few  two  or  three star  hotels  in Hazaribagh town ,
I would suggest  you wake_up  to the sound  of birdsong  in the Forest  Rest_house  located  inside the Hazaribagh National_Park , which is  atop Canary Hill .
You need  prior  permission  from the Divisional Forest  Officer  or Park  Director  who can be contacted  in Hazaribagh town  itself. 
You will find  that it is  worth  the effort ,  to get  a spectacular  view  of the town  and Hazaribagh Lake .
The French  and Italians  may  wax eloquent  about truffles , but the  tribals  of Jharkhand feel  no  need  to look  beyond the Phooto, a type  of mushroom  that grows  in the wild . 
It looks  like pebbles , and is found  only  after monsoon  showers  (which is  when you can see  them being sold  in village  haats)
For the tribals, this delicacy  is  equivalent  to having  caviars  and a medicinal  tonic  all  rolled  into one . 
People  come  especially  to Koderma to buy  these famous  kalakands  delicious , sweet  squares  of thickened  milk . 
Once  you’ve tasted  these calorie  rich  treats , you will be  a fan  for life .
Flour  balls  stuffed  with ground  and roasted   black gram , the most  authentic  littis are baked  in heaps  of cow_dung  cakes .
Handiya: forget  about lager  when you are  in Jharkhand
The local  fermented  brew  made  of rice  and herbs  is  a  must try .
 :58 : Followers  of Bacchus  will tell  you that, taken  in moderation , Handiya is  a great  health  drink , but almost  everyone drinks  it for the express  purpose  of getting  drunk . 
In most  rural  areas , you will find  a Handia seller  under every  other  tree . 
Priced  at only  Rs. 10  for a beerbottle  and Rs. 5  for a small  bowl , inebriation  has never  come  cheaper . 
Toss back the surprisingly tasty of toasted gram. 
A rich  sweetmeat  that is  rather  phallic  in appearance , the Atom bomb is sold  only in Kuru, a small  town  that falls  midway  between Ranchi and Daltonganj. 
Made  of cottage_cheese , these sinful concoctions  are fried  before they are dipped  in pools  of sugar_syrup . 
Bara and Kachri: these are  what samosas  are  to the north .
Made of lentils  (urad dal for bara and chana dal for kachri), the deepfried  Pakoras can be found  in almost  every  tea  stall . 
Dunk  them in spicy  chutney , and wash it all down with chai or a tumbler  of handiya. 
 :67 : The aroma  of Kebabs  will seduce  you the moment  you enter  Ranchi’s Main Road . People  flock  to the street , especially  in the evenings , for those meltinthemouth treats .
You will find  all  varieties   from chewy  seekhs to tender  Shammis. 
The street  is  also  peppered with bakeries , where you can choose  from biscuits , cakes  and sevaiyan, all of which have  that undefinable  homemade  taste .
Chaat in Pujab Sweet House, Ranchi: this restaurant  is  known  for its sweets , but it is  chaat, dahi kachoris and samosas  that it is  truly  and justly  famous  for. 
Drop_in  for breakfast ,  throw caution to the winds , and tuck_in  a grand  meal  of puri and sabzi (the aloo curry  is recommended ) followed  by a syrup  dessert  of jalebis.
Dhuskas: a thick  salty  pancake  that looks  and tastes  very  different  from a traditional  dosa, Dhuskas are made  of the same  basic  ingredients .
The rice  and urad dal batter  is left  to ferment  in the sun  and then  deep_fried .
Note  that dhuska is not  eaten  with any old  sabzi; only  with aloo dum or spicy  mutton  curry .
Chilka is  a salted  rice  and lentil  pancake  that could put  any  crepe_suzette  to shame . 
It is made  during festivities  and is  a must  at Holi. 
However , it is  not  easy  to obtain  most of the time . 
 :77 : Devotees  come  to Deoghar to pay  obeisance  at the Baidyanath Temple , but gourmands  come  here  to buy  the peda (flat , round  milk  sweet ).
 :78 : Unmatched  in taste , they can be found  in several  small  stalls  lining  the narrow  streets . 
They say  that Fakira has made  a fortune  by selling  dalmoth, a savoury  snack  made from a mixture  of roasted  lentils  and spices ; true  or not , once  you start  popping  the stuff  into your mouth , you will find  it quite  impossible  to stop . 
They smell  absolutely  awful , but bamboo_shoots  are put  to good  use  in Jharkhand. 
Try  the bamboo_shoot  pickle  or add  dried  shoots  to your vegetable  gravy  to give  it a tangy  edge . 
Walk  into any of the weekly  haats  and you will see  piles  of bamboo_shoots  being picked  by every  shopper .
Pickles  are  usually  not  available  in the haats; they are made  at home  with mustard  paste , chilli  and garlic  and soaked  in pungent  mustard  oil ; try  to wangle  an invitation  from someone . 
Handcrafted  mainly  by the Malhar and Tentri tribes , dokra artifacts  are primarily  created  from brass  scrap . 
The exquisite  objects  created  by these skilled   craftspeople  have a core  of clay  concealed  within the metal  casting . 
You will find  everything from tiny  deer  and tortoises  to large  lamps  and urns . 
Dokra handicrafts  are  available  in many  shops ; buy  them in the local  haat.
One of the earliest  forms  of tribal  art  in India , Paitkar paintings  feature  intricate  illustrations  made  on delicate  scrolls  and often  depict  fanciful  variations  of the theme  of life  after death . 
Due_to  the lack  of patronage , the art  is dying , and the paintings  are  not  available  in most  shops . 
A handful  of small  villages  around Ranchi are  known  for the unusual  handcrafted  wooden  dolls  that they produce . 
These strange  yet  attractive  dolls   brightly  coloured  human  likenesses  painted  on a single  piece  of wood   are distinguished  by their abstract  appearance . 
Interestingly , the dolls  are always  made  in pairs : a man  and a woman . 
Chhau masks  are worn  by the traditional  performers  of the famous  dance  form  of the same  name .
These masks , ranging  from 10 headed  Ravanas to dainty  Durga , also  make  for great  wall  decorations . It is  best  to buy  the real  thing  in Seraikela Kharsawan where the dance  originated . 
The very  thin  but flexible  and strong  variety  of bamboo  grown  in Jharkhand is shaped  into beautifully  crafted  baskets , containers  and even  fish traps  by the tribals. 
Tribal  jewellery : designs  vary  from region  to region , but they are always  made  of silver . 
The special  ones are  wide , chunky  bracelets  called  choor. 
Earrings  with flat  chains  that go  over the ears  and the pretty  string  of three  chains , embellished  with a flower shaped  clasp . 
 :98 : Bulu Imam runs  Sanskriti to preserve  and promote  indigenous  art  and culture . 
Visit  for the ambience  as well as the exquisite  handicrafts , representative  of several  tribes , on display . 
This place  encapsulates  the essences  of Jharkhand’s vibrant  and colourful  tribal  culture . 
Literally , Manipur  means  the land  of jewels . 
Rightly  so , as Manipur is  also  what Lord  Irwin called  the ‘Switzerland  of India ’.
Hemmed_in  by Nagaland in the north , Mizoram in the south ,  Assam  in the west  and Myanmar  in the east , Manipur   undulating  hills , verdant  valleys , floating  island  and enchanting  woods  are  sights  to behold  and cherish . 
This land , where several  communities  live  in harmony , is  also  famous  for its orchids  and classical  dance  form .
