Squeezed  in between Tibet  and Nepal  with China  breathing  down its neck , Sikkim  is  known  for the  unspoilt  magnificence  of its mountains  and the warmth  of its people . 
A trade free  zone , it is  on the fast_track  to development , but has retained  its natural  splendour . 
Make  Gangtok your base   it’s a town  straight  out of picture_books , with thin  flames  of prayer_wheels  in the hands  of lamas , and streets  lined  with bright  pagoda  roofed  houses , rage  of mist  and cloud  floating  above them. 
Hire  a jeep  from here  and explore  the more  remote  areas  of the country . 
You may need  to obtain  permits  for some  places , but it’s well  worth  the effort . 
From Pelling, a verdant  and charming  hill  town  in the west , you can enjoy  views  of the snow capped   Khangchendzonga .
The almost  mystically  beautiful  scenery  here  provides  an ideal  setting  for some of the state ’s oldest  and most  revered  monasteries . 
Do not  forget  to make  an excursion  to the distant  reaches  of the north , where you will be  spellbound  by the dramatic , forested  landscape  and the flowery  meadows  of Yumthang. 
Get_back  in touch  with both  nature  and spirituality  amid the mountains  and the monasteries .
Fringed  by a colourful  tangle  of flowering  plants , the 14  thatched  cottages  in east  Sikkim ’s Martam village  resort  (one of the five  ‘heritage  homes ’ of the Himalayas ) feature  large  picture_windows  that overlook  the terraced  valley  and the sweep  of forested  mountains . 
Rooms  are  airy  with bamboo  furnishings  and tiled  floors  and also  features  a cosy  restaurant  and bar .
Martam is  5  km  from Rumtek, about  an hour  drive  from Gangtok. 
Sonam Palgey is  the best  hotel  in the Lachung valley , primarily  because of its dramatic  location  by a waterfall  overlooking  the valley . 
It offers  10  basic  but pleasant  and comfortable  rooms  and the restaurant  serves  tasty  local  food . 
Getting  its name  from the bamboo  groves  around it, Bamboo Resort  is  set  in 3  acres  of paddy_fields  in the picturesque  farming  village  of Sajong, just  an half hour  drive  from Gangtok. 
All the 10  rooms  are  colour  themed  according  to Feng_Shui  principle  and afford  panoramic  view  of the Himalayas . 
The resort  prides  itself on its  eco friendly  policies  and the restaurant  serves  organic  vegetables  (including  preparations  containing  orchids , ferns  and nettles ).     
You could tuck_in  pizza  from a wood fired  oven .
Kewzing Village   Homestay : immerse  yourself in local  culture  at Kewzing, a timeless  Bhutia village  that rests  against a backdrop  of magnificent  mountains . 
Kewzing Village  is  the place  to stay  if you want  a firsthand  experience  of Sikkimese rural  life . 
The rooms  are  simple  but clean  and cosy  and the meals , served  in the family  kitchen , are  tasty  and wholesome . 
Activities : bird  watching , excursions  to the monasteries  dotting  the rambling  countryside  and even  working  in the fields  with the villagers .  
Yangsum Heritage  Farm : surrounded  by orchards  and fields , the family run  Yangsum Heritage  Farm  is  one of the most  delightfully  bucolic  staying  options  in the northeast . 
The house  was built  in 1833  and retains  a lovely  oldworld  charm . 
Heirlooms  belonging  to the Tsechu Tharpa family  still  decorate  the four  huge  rooms . 
Although the farm  is  only  2  bazaars , you will not  know  it relaxing  under Himalayan  alders  and magnolia  trees .
You can even  sign_up  for cookery  classes  here .  
Originally  built  to house  the guests  of the Chogyal royal_family , the NorKhill (the name  means  ‘above of jewels’) boasts  a fusion  of traditional  Sikkimese architecture  and modern  comfort . 
The Plus Hotel , with its manicured  lawn , elegant  rooms , wooden  floors , thangka scrolls  and striking  dragon motif  decorations  does_justice  to its illustrious  past .  
Drop_in  at the bar  to sample  the authentic  local  brew  and have  your fill  of Sikkimese delicacies  at the restaurant . 
No  visit  to Sikkim  is  complete  without a tumbler  of Chhang, the popular  local  beer  made  from fermented  millet  (the word  actually  means  ‘home brewed ’ so there are  variants  made  from rice , maize , wheat  and cassava ; some taste  a bit  like sake ).
The potent  brew  is traditionally  sipped  through a bamboo  container  called  a tongba.
However , although chhang is  the unofficial  national  drink , it is  not  ‘officially ’ available . 
Ask  around  discreetly  though  and you’ll find  that every  second  stall  stocks  Chhang. 
The Sikkimese love  to spice_up  their simple  meals  with piquant  or hot  pickles . 
Not  for the fainthearted  is  Jhekar, a chutney  made  from fiery  red  or green  peppers  (called  dallay) that grow  in the mountains . 
Milder  but with a tart  flavour  is  lap se chutney , made  of sour  wild  berries , while for a tangy  touch  there is  dho  tender  bamboo_shoots  in mustard_oil .
Also  immensely  popular  is  Chhurpi, a fermented , dried  cheese  prepared  from cow  or yak  milk .
When added  to soups , it thickens  the liquid  and gives  it a pungent  taste ; when pickled , it is , well, an acquired  taste 
Nose  around  for tasty , if not  exactly  aromatic , fish , chicken  and pork   pickles .
 :40 : Syal Roti: this robust  bread  crept  over the border  from Nepal . 
With dough  made  from rice , water , milk  and sugar , the fried  pretzel shaped  rotis are served  with spicy  potato  curry  or pakku, Sikkim ’s  take  on good  old  mutton  curry .
Unfortunately , Syal Roti is  not  widely  available  in restaurants , but some of the posher  hotels  serve  it. 
 :42 : You also   stand a good chance  of sampling  it during festivals  like Losar, the Tibetan  New_Year . 
Ninro is  a fern  that grows  in the mountains  and its tendrils  are  delicious  when sauteed  with chhurpi.
A household  staple , ningro chhurpi is  not  widely  available  in restaurants , but if you choose  a home stay, you can usually  sample  it.
The liqueurs  produced  by Sikkim  Distilleries  are  delicious  and make  great  gifts . 
Go_for  old  favourites  like crème de menthe, or try  spicy  innovations  like ginger  and cardamom  (Sikkim  produces  a large  quantity  of both).
The latest  craze  is  the fragrant  paan liqueur , which comes  in a 
betel_leaf shaped  bottle .
When spring  comes  to the hills  and the flowers  are  in full  bloom , Sikkimese cooks  throw  them into the soup  pot , stir_fry  them in woks  or preserve  them in pickle  jars .
Try  the soup  made  of nettles , bamboo_shoots  and mushrooms  or go_for  soucha, a nettle  dish , in which the leaves  are served  with minced  meat .
To experience  a bouquet  of flavours  (literally ), ask  for barhey, a concoction  of rice  and pickled  rhododendrons  or orchids .
For such  dishes , it’s best  to look_for  small  stalls  in rural  areas , such as the ones near Khecheolpari Lake  in Yukson.
In the Gangtok, the restaurant  at the family run  Hotel  Netuk House is  a good  bet .
Blue Sheep Restaurant , MG Marg has  a bunch  of restaurants  serving  popular  Sikkimese dishes .
One of the best  eateries here  is  the Blue Sheep, which serves  Chinese style  Sikkimese specialties . 
Start  with Gyakho, a nutritious  soup  that, at its most  royal , can use  up to 108  ingredients . 
Follow  it up with some  crisp  beef  chill fry .
All over Sikkim , steaming  momos and the convenient  one  dish  meal  thukpa are  irresistible .
At Gangtok’s Tibet Hotel , noodles  are encountered  under many  misleading  names , but we have never  been let_down  by the platterful at the Golden Dragon.
The strong  Tibetan  influence  on Sikkim ’s handicrafts  are  evident  everywhere  and it is  no  different  with the handwoven  woolen  carpets  that are found  in almost  all  markets . 
The best  rugs  are made  of pure  sheep ’s wool  and patterned  with traditional  motifs  in vivid  vegetable  dyes .
For the real  deal , head  to Kunphenling Tibetan  Settlement  in Ravangla, 65  km  from Gangtok.
Thangka Scrolls , depicting  Buddhist  themes  and symbols  as well as other  religious  iconography , are  canvas  scrolls  that are often  framed  with silk . 
Genuine  thangkas employ  only  vegetable  or mineral  dyes , and each  colour  has  its own  significance ; white  stands_for  peace , gold  represents  enlightenment  and red  signifies  passion . 
While only  Buddhist  monks  once  created  thangkas, they are  now  available  in most  handicrafts  stores . 
Dragon Jewellery : although not  many are  aware  of it, Sikkim  produces  some  truly  exquisite  jewellery .
Most  notable  and unique  to Sikkim  are  the ‘Dragon sets ’, usually  crafted  from silver  and gold .
Often  inlaid  with precious  and semiprecious  stones , the design  essentially  consists  of coiled  dragons  on earrings , pendants  and rings . 
Visit  Ranchandra Jewellers , Lal Bazaar , Gangtok. 
Gangtok’s lively  Sunday  market , Lal Bazaar  is  a  riot  of colour  and is  Sikkim  at its most  vibrant . 
The smell  of fish , spices , cheese  and vegetables  permeates  the air , as people  of various  ethnic_groups  from different  villages  gather  to haggle , bargain  and barter .
You can buy  exotic  condiments , dried  fish , embroidered  scarves  and a whole_lot  more.
Note  that since the original  market  is  now  being rebuilt , the shops  have been shifted  to the Children ’s park  temporarily . 
The Handicrafts  Centre  in Pelling sells  souvenirs  and fabrics  featuring  distinctive  Lepcha and Bhutia weaves . 
You can pick  from a variety  of items , ranging  from pretty  appliqued  bags  and brightly  coloured  batik  jackets  to handwoven  shawls  and blankets .
You will also  find  beautifully  carved  wood  and bamboo  items , including  furniture  and lovely  knick_knacks . 
The ceremonial  masks  and lamps  make  for exceedingly  attractive  gifts . 
Near Hotel  Pelling in Gangtok, visit  the Sikkim  Art  Emporium . 
Pick_up  carved  wooden  tables  or Chodtses, carpets , thangka paintings  and carved  ritual  masks  that are  a brilliant  vermillion  and turquoise  blue  at the government run  Institute  of Cottage_Industries , where over a 100  students  can be seen  perfecting  their crafts . 
Paper , handmade  from tree  bark , is  a speciality  here .
It is  a few  minutes  uphill  from Gangtok’s main  market .
With Assam , Mizoram and Bangladesh  as neighbors , the tiny  state  of Tripura had  a special  place  in the Nobel_Laureate  
Rabindranath_Tagore ’s heart . 
It was  here  that he sojourned  during the rule  of Maharaja  Birchandra Manikya.
A little_known  poet  then , Tagore  stayed  at Kunjaban in Agartala.
Even  as you walk  down the Rabindra kanan today , you will feel  strains  of the poet ’s songs  filling  the air . 
The stately  Ujjayanta Palace , covering  an area  of one  km , is  a symbol  that identifies  Tripura. 
Flanked  by two  large  lakes  and a garden  where a thousand  flowers  bloom  every  winter , part  of the Ujjaynta now  houses  the State  Assembly. 
Nearby  are  the Durga Bari and Laxmi Narayan Bari temples , where the  royals  still  celebrate  Durga Puja with great  fervour . 
The Neermahal, the royal_family ’s summer  retreat , is  a hallmark  fusion  of Hindu  and  Moghul  architecture . 
Seemingly  shrouded  in a time  warp , Tripura is  also  a land  of temple , the most  famous  one  being  the Tripura Sundari Temple  at Udaypur. 
The picturesque  Jampui Hills  is  where spring  never  ends .
Inhabited  by the friendly  Lushai tribes , this is  a great  escape  during the summers . 
Live  in the homes  of the tribals and enjoy  their hospitality . 
Cordial  and helpful , the Tripuris also  have  a delicious  cuisine  to boast  of.
 Buy  their beautiful  handicrafts , taste  their mouth_watering  food  and return  with a treasure_trove  of pleasant  memories . 
Tourist  lodge  inside Sephijala wildlife  sanctuary : living  amidst these tranquil  surrounds  will be  an experience  difficult  to forget , or match .
At the Sephijala wildlife  sanctuary , humble  abodes  at laughable  low  prices  offer  you a window  to the daily  life , a world  of scenic  vistas  and exciting  adventure . 
Uttarmegh lodge : this is  your chance  to stay  in an ancient  city . 
Unakoti, a heritage  site  set  against the backdrop of picturesque  lush  green  hills , is  home  to beautiful  rock cut  carvings  and stone  images . 
 :100 : Unakoti means  ‘one  less_than  a crore ’ and it is believed  that that’s the number  of carvings you can find  here . 
According  to legend , when  Lord  Shiva  was going  to Kashi along with one  crore  other  gods  and goddess , he made  a halt  at this location  for a night . 
He asked  all  the gods  and goddess  to wake_up  before sunrise  so they could proceed  but in the morning  but no one woke_up  on_time .
