Prepare  for your senses  to be overwhelmed  by the restaurants  at the Grand Ashok, which put  all  sorts  of culinary  delights  on the table , crafted  by expert  chefs  with such  dedication  to perfection  that they are  completely  irresistible . 
Mandarin, the Chinese  restaurant , has been testing  the tastebuds  of innumerable  guests  for the last  25  years .
On the sixth  floor  of the Grand Ashok, painted  in colors  of greens  and wood , it serves  the best  authentic  Chinese with Cantonese and Sichuan you’ll find  in Bangalore .
Sit  at the rooftop  restaurant  on a lazy  evening  with live  music  playing , sample  the delicious  food  and allow  yourself to be lulled  into a sense  of being transported  to the Orient .
If you like  your food  robust  and full  of flavour  look  no  further  than the signature  northwest  frontier  cuisine  at Baluchi.
The restaurant  uses  an authentic  indigenous  style  of cooking  and makes  
mouth_watering  tawa, kadai, degchi, and legan curries .
The succulent  kebabs , both hot  and cold , and the variety  of breads  and rotis are  delightful .
There are  even  exclusive  desserts  of Baluchistan to sample .
The  multi  cuisine  restaurant , 24 /7 , is  great  for all day  dining , with an array  of Mexican , Italian , Mediterranean , Indian  and even  Banglorean  dishes , while the pastry  shops  sell  an assortment  of immaculately  baked  treats  to satisfy  your sweet_tooth .
Dining_out  at the magnificent  Leela Palace Kempinski is  an event  in itself.
For the tastes  of the Orient , there is  only  one  restaurant  in town  worth  its Wasabi  – Zen serves  cuisines  from Japan , Thailand , Korea , Singapore  and Malaysia .
Live  counters  of teppanyaki, yakitori, Korean , barbeque  as well as a well stocked  noodle  bar  bring  authentic  Oriental  food  to you.
On the wine  list  at Leela Palace Kempinski,  rice wines  like soju add  to the experience .
Jamavar is  the Leela’s Indian  specialty  restaurant , which takes  you through a culinary  journey  into the ancient  art  of dining .
The menu  at Leela Palace Kempinski includes  rich  and delectable  Mughlai dishes  whose spices  will tingle  your tastebuds , all  to the gentle  strains  of classical_music  wafting  through the air . 
The specialties  of the restaurant  include  
mouth–watering  dishes  like salmon  ke Kebab , murg methi malai and lobster  Nerrulli.
All day  dining  is  perfect  at Citrus, which has  a display  kitchen  where expert  chefs  conjure_up  a variety  of delicacies  right  in front of your eyes .
There are  gourmet  salads  to convert  the  most  reluctant  muncher  of lettuce , classic  risottos  and a selection  of yummy  pizzas  made  in wood –fired  ovens .
The cuisine  in the restaurants  of this regal  hotel  is  known  for being  delicious  and exquisitely  crafted  – prepare  for a wonderful  culinary  experience .
For an authentic  and delightful  culinary  experience  in the heart  of Hyderabad , walk  into Zafraan Laguna, a restaurant  as  exotic  as its name .
A starry  night , the intoxicating  scent  of aromatic  candles , the soothing  strains  of the saxophone  – it doesn’t take  more to make  the perfect  setting  for a romantic  evening .
Welcome to the Zafraan Laguna, the restaurant  as  exotic  as its name .
Dine  on the finest  food  in the lap  of nature , quite  literally , that’s because the decor  of Zafraan Laguna, the month –old  restaurant  from the Zafraan Stable, boasts  of more_than  100  plants  and 400  fishes . 
Watch  the skittish , colorful  koi carps , imported  from Thailand , in action  as you sip  a classy  cocktail .
At Zafraan Laguna as you wait  for the chefs  to put  your meal  together  relax  to the beat  of the lilting   music  in the background , study  the impressive  paintings  on the wall  or simply  admire  the impeccable  table  setting .
Thanks  to the tireless  efforts  of head_honcho  Mithun Khaitan, Zafraan Laguna offers  an authentic  international  experience  in the heart  of the Charminar city .
The mind_boggling  variety  in the menu  might confuse  the gourmands .
At Zafraan Laguna we, however , recommend  the mouth_watering  New Zealand Norwegian  smoked_salmon , the classic  Martini , the fantastic  collection  of Vodka  and the simple  yet  irresistible  gelato, an Italian  frozen_dessert .
The Sunday  brunch  at Zafraan Laguna is turning_out  to be  the biggest  draw , so plan  and book  well  in_advance  if you want  to sample  it.
“Laguna is  definitely  for the  Alisters  and those with a cool  high   quotient 
We want  to make  this restaurant  the very  best  in every  sense ,” promises  Khaitan.
 :33 : Discover  the wonder  of wood_carvings  along with creation  in metal 
And there’s honey  from the hills  for your sweet_tooth .
 :34 : Metal  casting  and the embossing  of designs  on metal  are  longstanding  traditions  all_over  the state  of Karnataka .
Temple  friezes  often  inspire  the motif  for these pieces  of art  and ornate  reproductions  of gods  and goddesses  are among the more  popular  themes .
The temple  town  of Udipi is  famous  for its small  images , while the Jain  centre  Karkala is  known  for its Jain  statues .
Household  items  made  from bell_metal  are  popular  in Mangalore and Nagamangala, near Mysore , is  known  for its bronze  casting .
Other  centers  for metal  craft  include  Bangalore , Shivarapatana, Shravanbelagola and Bidar.
Sandalwood  carving : these delicately  scented  pieces  of art  are  probably  among the most  popular  souvenirs  to take  home  from a trip  of Karnataka 
Choose  from the accessories  such as beads  or pendants , furniture , screens , statues , toys , stationery  items  and even  bookmarks  made  from sandalwood .
Inlaid  furniture  and carvings  are  also  available  in plenty , especially  in the Shimoga, Uttara Kannada and Mysore  districts .
The government  sandalwood  oil  factory  and Krisnaraja Circle , in the heart  of the city  are  two  best  places  to find  Sandalwood  products  in Mysore .
Another  place  to check_out  is  Cottage Arts Emporium  in Bangalore . 
Location : 133 , Farah Winsford, Infantry Road .
 :44 : The famous  embroidery  called  Kasuti embroidery , popular  in Hubli and Dharwad, dates_back  to the Chalukya period , around  the sixth  century .
Kasuti derives  it’s geometric  motifs  from various  temple  sculptures  and has  for themes  animals , birds , gods  and goddesses .
There are  four  varieties  of Kasuti Embroidery  – Navge, Murgi, Menthya and Gavanthi. 
A wedding  trousseau  in Karnataka  is  usually  incomplete  without a Sari  with Kasuti, while the emphasis  is  usually  on the elaborately  decorated  Pallu.
Best  places  to buy  kasuti embroidery  are  : Priyadarshini Handlooms, Opposite  Municiple Corporation Circle , Dharwad; Karnataka  Handloom  development  Corporation , Second  Floor , Enkay Complex , Hubli.  
Karnataka ’s finest  honey  comes  from Bhagamandalam, near Medikere, in the Kodugu district , where some of the best  apiaries  are  located .
Stock  up on plenty  of the sweet  stuff  (Honey ) before checking  the nearby  spice  markets  for cardamom  and pepper .
The town  also  has  a rare  apiary  museum , if you’re intrigued  by the history  behind the beekeeping  tradition .
The story  of Mysore  Silk  began  in 1912 , when the Wodeyar royal_family  imported  32  looms  from Switzerland  to nurture  the local  art  of weaving .
Since 1912 , the Mysore  silk  has grown  from being  a local  craft  to a global  brand , known  for its special  lustre  and fine  texture .
Made  in a Kaleidoscope  of colors  and often  interwoven  with delicate  gold  thread , these saris  have become  an integral  part  of Karnataka ’s heritage . 
A bride ’s wardrobe  will, 99  out of 100  cases , have  at_least  one  Mysore  Silk  Sari .
In Mysore , head  to Devaraj Urs, Ashok Road  and Sayyaji Road , for a range  of choices  while in Bangalore  Deepam Silk International are  good  options  for buying  some  Mysore  silk  saris .
 :55 :_Rosewood_trees  are  native  to Mysore ’s forests  and the local  artisans  have long been using  the wood  to carve  intricate  figurines , gods  and goddesses , birds  and animals .
Rosewood  inlay  work , also  popular , is  an art  confined  to Mysore , unlike the sandalwood  carvings  the rest  of the state  is  known  for.
The shops  around the Krishnaraja Circle  in Mysore  are  your best  bet while others include  Karnataka  state  Art  and crafts Emporium  and All  India  crafts Emporium .
The quiet  hamlet  of Channapatana, also  known_as  toy  town , is  the best  place  in the state  to shop  for lacquerware .
It’s a craft  paradise  of over 3 ,000  local  craftsmen . Take  your pick  from a bouquet of lacquerware  creations  – wooden  toys  (perhaps  the best  take–back  gifts  for the 
little ones in your family ), long  curtains , rings  and a range  of jewellery . 
Channapatana is  60  km  from Bangalore . Stop  at Lacquerware  crafts  complex  here  for these beautiful  products .
Bidar, a town  in north  Karnataka , is  a centre  for a unique  style  of engraving .  
Believed  to have been adopted  from a Persian  art , the technique  involves  a design  being drawn  on an alloy  of zinc , copper , tin  or lead , and then  traced , at various  depths , with a chisel .
Ornamental  jugs , betel  and powder  boxes , cutlery , crockery , candlesticks , knives , hookahs , flower  vases  and pen  holders  are all  embellished  this way .
I love  the wonderfully  fragrant  Mysore Sandal soaps  from Mysore  and old  fascinating  games  like chausar and chaukobara from the crafts council  of Karnataka .
For Indo–Western wear , I go  to Bandhej and to Ogaan for formalwear , says  Vasundhara Das, singer  and actor .
A luxury  Jewellery  brand  that has won  national  and international  acclaim  for excellence  in Jewellery  design , Ganjam has  carved out  for itself a reputation  of the finest  craftsmanship  for exquisite  jewellery .
Ganjam offers  everything from traditional  old  jewellery  of the royalty  of yesteryear  to the finest  contemporary  collections .
Continuous  innovations  ensure  that there is  always  something  new  and exciting  to look_forward  in terms of both  design  and material , at Ganjam.
Ganjam was  the first  to introduce  platinum  jewellery  in India  and now  is  the only  one to have created  handicrafts platinum  jewellery  as_well .
For air_conditioned  shopping  luxury  in a large  open  space , you have to head  straight  for the Gopalan Malls  in Bangalore .
Stylish  and welcoming , these ultra  modern  glass  structures  have  a massive  space  perfect  for whole  day  of retail  therapy .
There’s a two  – screen   multiplex  for movie  buffs , a children ’s play  area  to keep  the little ones entertained  and a huge  food_court  with a wide  variety  of cuisines  to suit  all  tastes  and budgets .
Ganjam has  stores  in Bangalore  and Mumbai  and also  has collaborated  with international  designers  like Kazuo Ogawa and Yumi Kastsura, names  to reckon  with in the fashion_industry .
Shop  at Nike, Adidas and Proline for all  kinds  of sportswear  and sports  accessories ; there’s Provogue, Identiti, Lifestyle, Pantaloons, Westside and Shoppers Stop for the latest  in the men ’s and women ’s fashion , both  in Indian  and western  wear .
Ganjam has been invited  to show  their collections  at Milan , Basel , Tokyo  and Paris , just  an indication  of the international  value  of Ganjam jewellery .
Apart from which, it has been actively  involved  in the arts , whether by the supporting  the annual  musical  extravaganza , Flights of Fantasy, or bringing  the international  artists  like flamenco   high priestess  Rosana Maya to India . 
Ganjam’s commitment , to put  it simply  and succinctly , is  to both  excellence  and  exclusivity  which is reflected  in their designs , which take  current  international  trends  and adapt  them to a uniquely  Indian  context .
Shop  for everything from exquisite  jewellery  to the most  cutting–edge  technology  for your home  to health  and beauty  products  to keep  looking  young .
The Gopalan Mall , especially  the very  popular  one at Mysore Road , combine  brilliant  architecture  with effortlessly  streamlined  interiors , to offer  a shopping  experience  unlike  any  other.
The convenience  comforts  and pleasure  that you’ll find  in strolling  around this bright  space  is  just  wonderful .
Kerala has  something  for everyone  scenic  backwaters  and serene  leisure , mouth_watering  food  to tickle  your taste_buds , and a rich  cultural  heritage  for lovers  of art , music  and dance . 
The ayurvedic spas  in Kerala are , perhaps , the most  authentic  in the country .
Kerala is  also  a melting_pot  of diverse  cultures  and communities . 
So a holiday  in Kerala enriches  not  just  your body  and mind  but your very  soul .
 :87 : The people  of God ’s own  country  – many of them English  speaking  – are  traditionally  hospitable , making  every  guest   feel at home .
To make  each  experience  truly  worthwhile  for travelers , we plan  to upgrade  facilities  in the state , especially  at pilgrimage  centers .
So, come  to Kerala for a perfect  holiday  – explore  the sun  baked  beaches , feast  your eyes  on the lush  greenery , feel  the rhythm  of Kathakali and shop  for souvenirs .
A holiday  can’t get  any  better  or more  memorable .
Stay  in the lap of nature , with sunny  beaches , serene  backwaters  or enchanting  forests  forming  the backdrop.
Kumarakom Lake Resort  is  an island  of peace  and fanciful  luxury .
The ornate  cottages  are surrounded  by rustling  coconut_trees  and well  kept  gardens  in Kumarakom Lake Resort .
A meandering  pool , which runs  through the property , is  charming  enough  to keep  you sitting  by its side  till sundown .
Foodies  will relish  the Syrian Christian Duck  Roasts  at Ettukettu, the  multi  cuisine  restaurant  and for delicious  prawns  and fish , there’s Vembanad the seafood  bar .
When you’re in the midst  of a coffee , spice  and vanilla  plantation , living  in a luxurious  colonial  planter ’s bungalow , then it’s not  often  that you think  of climbing  a tree .
At Tranquil Plantation Hideaway you will climb  on a tree  to get_to  the tree_house .
Tranquil Plantation Hideaway: carved  out of coffee  woods , it’s a  show–stealer  from where you may not  want  to step_out , though the lush  Wayanad rainforest  beckons  seductively .
Poovar island resort : clean , green  and glorious  sunsets  are  the key  features  of the resort .
There’s is  plenty  more to  wax eloquent  about the Poovar island Resort  – including  the hotel ’s environmental  concerns  – but suffice  to say  it’s as  close  to heaven  on earth  as you are  likely  to get  on a holiday .
Location , they say , is  everything; obviously that’s something  taken  very  seriously  at Green Mansions.
Green Mansions: this three  bedroom  unassuming   ecolodge  is  situated  right  in the middle  of the Periyar Tiger  Reserve .
Green Mansions is  a place  to embrace  nature  to trek , go  for night  safaris , bird  watch  or canoe  in the lake ; camping  is  also  an option .
