Established  in the year  1975 , HUDA has been  in the forefront  of urban  planning  and infrastructure  development  in Hyderabad .
Nestled  in the southern  Indian  peninsula , skirted  by the waters  of the Bay_of_Bengal  and the Indian_Ocean , Tamil_Nadu  is  a land  of natural  wonders .
There are  sanctuaries , lakes , waterfalls , forests , sloping   hills  and sunny  beaches  on_the_one_hand ; on the other  there are  manmade  marvels  like the grand  temples , magnificent  churches  and imposing  forts .
Travel  back  in time  as you see  the rock  cut  temples  of Mamallapuram or spend  your time  exploring  the quaint  temple  town  like Srirangam, Madurai, Rameshwaram and Chidambaram.
Escape  to the picture  perfect   hill stations  such as Kodaikanal and Ooty and spend  some  time  exploring  the vast  coffee  and spice  plantations .
Also  the land  of dance  and music , 
Tamil_Nadu  is  the perfect  destination  for connoisseurs  of the art .
Unwind  with an evening  of Carnatic Music  or watch  the Bharatnatyam performance .
Don’t forget  to savour  our delectable  dosas, salad  (Thalis) and fresh  filter  coffee  before you call_it_a_day .
Wake_up  to the aroma  of the  filter coffee , laze  in a hammock  by the sea_side  and retire  to the solitude  of a tree_house .
Located  on one of the world  most  historic  beaches , this Mahabalipuram resort  known_as  GRT Temple Bay brings  you luxury  with the music  of lapping  waves .
All  the suites  and villas  in GRT Temple Bay have  a view  of the sea , and are  great  for holiday  or even  a quick  break  if you are  in Chennai  on business .
Spend  your evening  at high_tide  at the hotel  seafront  bar , or sample  the seafood  delicacies  at the Waterfront cafe .
Cardamom House: this  ‘ecofarm’  at the edge  of the Kamarjar lake  is  something  special .
Run  by a retired  doctor , this green  tourism  project , Cardamom House, ensures  that all  your meals  are  fresh  from the garden , the showers  are  solar  powered , and yes, your wine  is  homemade .
Begin  your day  with coffee  on the verandah  and  wind down  with dinner  on the rooftop , which offers  a splendid  view , while the fragrance  of frangipani  wafts  around you.
There are  plenty  of walking  trails , and day  trips  to Madurai and Palani, and Kodaikanal is  a three  hour  drive  away .
Located  in the heart  of a ‘spice  sanctuary ’ in the Nilgiris, the Kurumba Village  Resort  is  a cluster  of cottages , each  delightfully  ‘earthy ’ – pyramid  – shaped , with bright  interiors , balconies  with railings  of areca  wood  and tiled  roofs .
Every  bathroom  gives  you a splendid  view  of the hilly  horizon  – while maintaining  your privacy , of_course ! 
If you really  want  to leave  this cosy  resort , go  trekking , or drive  to Coonoor or the green ,  unspoilt  upper  Bhawani area .
 :20 : The Bangala: a mansion , which stands  in an absolutely  striking  ‘boulevard  of palaces ’, was  once  an extravagant  Chettiar home , built  from the huge  profits  from teak  trading .
Now  a heritage  hotel  and a spot  of calm  in Karaikudi, The Bangala, is  known_for  its mouthwatering  Chettinad curries , served , as is traditional , on banana  leaves .
With the Madumalai wildlife  sanctuary  for a backyard  and Bandipur National_Park  not  far_away , a stay  at Bamboo Banks Farm  gives  you plenty  of opportunities  for game  viewing  and photography .
The 40  acre  farm  by the Avarihalli river  with four  independent , cosy  cottages  has been run  by Kothavalas, a charming  couple , for the last  30  years .
Old_timers  swear  by this sprawling  white  structure  that is  Chennai  first  and perhaps , only  heritage  hotel  called  as Taj Connemara
Taj Connemara's colonial  elegance  blends  perfectly  with the contemporary  touch  in its newly  renovated  rooms .
The  jewel  in its architectural  crown is  the Lord Connemera suite ; relish  its authentic  TT Chettinad cuisine  at the Raintree, another  feather in the Connemara cap.
If you've ever  dreamt  of living  on a farm , making  bread  and cheese , and feeding  the hens  every  morning , head  to Acre Wild.
Mansoor and Tina Khan, the couple  who run  the Acre Wild organic  home   stay  in the hills  of Coonoor, are trying  to promote  an  ecofriendly , self_sustaining  lifestyle  – by introducing  to this 22  – acre  farm  a diverse  ranges  of trees  and plants , creating  small  bodies_of_water  to bring  back  the birds  and wildlife , and keeping  their own hens , cows , ducks , geese , horses  and bees .
What this farm  is  known  for, though , are  the homemade  cheese  and jams .
This glorious  hotel , The Park, with its 215  rooms , stands  in the premises  of the erstwhile  Gemini Studio .  
Tall  bamboos , stylish  sofas , feather  duvets  and a bar  with a leather  floor  makes  this lavish  hotel  a design  statement .
Aesthetes  will find  the glass – walled  bathrooms  beautiful  as also  the huge  granite  arc  that is  the  reception . 
The food , equally  good , is  a huge  draw .
The Malabar crab  and the  raw  mango  curry  are  a  southerner's  delights .
The rooftop  pool  side  adds  to the pleasure  of feasting  on Mediterranean  delicacies . 
Red Hill Nature Resort ; a 120  year  old  bungalow  has  plenty  to recommend  it – located  in the upper  Nilgiris, next  to Kerala's famous  Silent Valley, the Mukurthi National_Park , and on the edge  of the calm  Emerald Lake .
Each  room  has  a long  fireplace  of its own , which probably  makes  it harder  to leave  it, especially  when there’s no  room  service .
However , this unusual  practice  has forged  many  a friendship  and sparked  many  a conversation  over dinner .
Elephant Valley : built  right  next  to a centuries  – old  elephant  migration  route , this 100  – acre  estate  that overlooks  the Gangavaar river  in picturesque  Kodaikanal, is  a  biodiverse  spot .
Each  granite  cottage  is  furnished  in colonial  style  complete  with wood  stoves  for those winter  evenings  but if you’re adventurous , you can opt  for a tent , or even  a tree_house .
Meals  come  from the organic  farm , the light  and hot  water  runs  on 
Solar_energy , and rainwater  harvesting  is also  done  here .
Observe  over a 100  species  of birds , go  for a long  trek  or try  your hand  at organic  farming .
There's more  cuisine  than just  powder –soft  idlis and Vadas
 Dig  into spicy  prawns , calamaries  and chicken  fry .
 :45 : Moonrakers is  the preeminent   eatout  in Mahabalipuram.
Every  guidebook  mentions  this  joint , and the Moonrakers certainly  lives_up_to  its fantastic  reputation .
Driving  down  from Chennai  for lunch  at Moonrakers is  a common  weekend  occurrence .
Choose  between the batterfried  Calamari  and the fried  Calamari  in garlic_sauce , both equally  delicious .
The fried  fish  is  the popular  choice  for the main_course  – we recommend  the red_snapper .
Cold  beer  makes  for the perfect   accompaniment , amidst the (usually ) warm  and humid  weather .
Benjarong is  where you get   to rub shoulders with  Chennai   who’s who , thanks  to the exotic  and 
 out–of–thisworld  Thai  food  served  here .
Don’t forget  to reserve  a table  if it’s a weekend , what with people  from Bangalore  flying  in to dine  here .
Apart from the usual  favorites , such as the fragrant  fish  with basil  and chillies  and the tangy  papaya  salad , don’t miss  the mein khum, a Thai  variation  of paan.
Chef  Matthew has  a special  lunch  for the value  conscious too , priced  at Rs. 178 .
Sarvana Bhawan is  a chain  which is  arguably  Tamil_Nadu  largest  eating–out  endeavour , at_least  in terms of the number  of locations  covered . 
Sarvana Bhawan is  present  in 22  places  in Tamil_Nadu  itself, covering , Chennai, Vellore and Kanchipuram.
They've exported  their wares  across eight  countries  too , all  within the last  25  years .
They specialize  in quick  service  South  Indian  fare  (their north  Indian  dishes  are  an acquired  taste ), having made  an assembly_line  of idlis, dosas, parottas and uttapams.
Their strict  process  orientation  ensures  a shorter  wait , and consistent  quality .
Chettinad Cuisine  : the wealthy  Chettiars gave  Tamil_Nadu  more_than  just  business  – their rich  cuisine  apart from the ethnic  mansions  they built .
Chettinad food , heavily  partial  towards meat  and fish  lovers , is  widely  available  in the state .
In Chennai , however , nothing  can come  even  close  to the 50  year old  Ponnusamy Hotel 
Ponnusamy food  is  not  for the  weakhearted  as chefs  are  very  generous  with the spices .
The Ponnusamy chicken  fry  is  a good   bet  , if one doesn't want  to try  the ever  popular  and economical  thali.
Other  recommendations  include  the crab  masala, sora puttu (shark ) kaadai65  (quail ) rabbit  roast , pigeon  roast  and the mutton  biryani .
Eat  straight_ from the plantain  leaf  with a wide  range  of pickles  to accompany  every  ‘meaty ’ mouthful .
The Sri Velu Military mess  in Nungambakkam too  represents  the old_guard , as far as non  vegetarian  Chennai  goes.
The ‘military ’ is  an adjective  which has, for a long  time  now , represented  the extremist  meat_eating  stances  it has . 
The waiter  carries  a large  platter  with the piping  hot  dishes  on it, a far  better  option  than ordering  their expensive  menu  which spans  a large  variety  from seafood  to poultry .
Enjoy  the night  with amorous  candlelight , contemporary  cuisine  and alfresco  ambience  at Upper Deck.
Along with authentic  Mediterranean  and Lebanese  cuisine , the outdoor  feel  of the restaurant  brings  you the company  of the ocean , a starlit  night  and warm  sea_breeze .
Prawns  with Dukkha spices , Caharmaula crusted  New Zealand lamb_chops  served  with spiced  couscous  and the chef  signature  Mezze samplers  are  but  a few  delectable  dishes , cooked_up  to tease  your taste_buds .
So go_ahead , give  dinner  the Upper Deck advantage . 
Murugan's idli shop  started  in Madurai, where it spent  many  years  serving  its piping  hot  idlis and a wide  assortment  of chutneys  to go  with them.
The idlis are  special , enough  to specify  naming  the shop  after them.
Powder  – soft  and guaranteed  to melt  in the mouth , the long  queue  outside  is  the testament  to the chef  skill . 
There are  some  excellent  variations  of Vadai and pongal as_well .
Murugan's rarely  downs  its  shutters   open  almost  all  days  and nights .
North  Indian  food  in a southern  state ? 
Not  a very  appetizing  proposition , we’d say , but Gyan Vaishnav Punjabi Dhaba, which fills  an important  gap  in Chennai  restaurant  offering , is  worth  a try . 
 :84 : The Dhaba started  off in Vellore before  spreading  all_over  the state .
The vegetarian  menu  is  purely  Punjabi, down to cheeky  titles  such as the Rabri without Lalu.
The double  malai lassi is  an eternal  favourite  – one risks  offending  the restaurateurs  if you don’t order  it.
A lifesize  Amitabh Bachchan cutout  stands  right  at the entrance  of the Chennai  branch , beckoning  you to join  the feast .
Konar Mess  is  a  legend  in Madurai, where anyone who is  not  a staunch  vegetarian  will swear  by.
Konar Mess  is named  after a community  in Tamil_Nadu .
However , they do serve  anyone who desires  it. Outside  the mess  also  patrons  are seen  standing  around , or in their cars , putting_away  large  mouthwatering  helpings  of the limited  menu .
Almost  all  of its highly  specialized  offerings  are  excellent , with top  honours  split  between the mutton  dosa and the idiappam with hot  chicken  curry .
Angannan Hotel  in Coimbatore evokes  a single  word  in the palates  of everyone who knows  of it – biryani .
Also  called  the Angannan Biryani  Hotel , its biryani  has  wide  acclaim , well  beyond  limits  of the this industrial  town .
The choice  is  primarily  between the chicken  and the mutton  variants , and the chicken  fry  and roasts  are  commendable  too . 
The biryani  is best  had  piping  hot , so it’s advisable  to turn_up  early  at mealtimes .
Fisherman's Fare   joint  on Chennai  Spur Tank Road  (and with a new  branch  on Casa Major Road  around the corner ) is  one of the more  popular  seafood  restaurants  in the city .
Ask  for the catch  of the day  at Fisherman's Fare , and go_with  the waiter  recommendation  on its preparation  too . 
The prawn  fry  is  an excellent  appetizer , the crabmeat  too  is  spoken  of highly . 
The place  is  usually  packed , so  factor in  a short  wait .
 :100 : Fruit  Shop  on Greams Road , yea  that’s the name , though the shop  has  branches  in Chennai  Besant Nagar and Spencer plaza  too .
Fruit Shop  on Greams Road  is  the city  favourite  juice  – and – milk–shake   joint .
The Besant Nagar Beach  one is  the most  convenient , when one is enjoying  an evening  by the seaside . 
It’s all reasonably  priced , with a long  list  of choices .
I remember  the amazing  taste  of the lemon  – sevai and jhangri at the hotel  Annapoorna, Coimbatore.
The shop  is open  till midnight , and they don’t accept  tips , usually .
One must try  the  filter coffee  at Hotel  Sangeetha, Chennai  – it’s as  close  as one can get  to what we make  at home .
Trichy's keerai – vadai are  very  crisp  and not  oily  at_all .
