There are  exquisite  silk  saris  and brass  lamps  for festive  occasions , roam  the streets  for all you need  to adorn  your house .
 :2 : Bronze  icons  is  an ancient  craft  of Panchaloha which attained  glory  under the Cholas and the best  bronze  icons  are still  cast  in the old  Chola strongholds  of Madurai, Swaminalai and Tiruchinapalli by craftsmen  who strictly  adhere  to tradition .
 :3 : By this method  the icon  is first  made  in wax , then  three  layers  of clay  are applied  on the wax  model  and it is allowed  to dry .
 :4 : The mould  is then  drained  of wax  and put  over an oven  and molten  metal  is poured  into it
 :5 :  After a few  days , the mould  is broken  and the bronze  icon  emerges  – the only  one  of its kind  to be made  this way .
 :5 : From wooden   temple cars  to intricately  carved  panels , erotic  figurines  and floral  motifs , woodcraft  has been  part  of 
 :6 : Tamil_Nadu ’s heritage  since time_immemorial .
 :7 : The finest  examples  of woodcarving  are found  in Tiruchirapalli, Coimbatore, Salem  and Dharmapuri and are  associated  with temples .
 :8 : Today  small  shrines  carved  from teak  are  popular , as are  traditional  Devakottai and Karaikkudi panels , which are often  used  as wall  decorations .
 :9 : If you are interested  in buying  rosewood  carvings , with detailed  etchings  of flowers  or animals , it’s best  to visit  Madurai.
 :10 : The classic  Tanjore Paintings , inlaid  with gold_leaf , glass  and precious_stones , flourished  in the Chola capital  of Thanjavur.
 :11 : The Tanjore paintings  have, over the centuries , remained  traditional , featuring  gods  and goddesses  and religious  themes , in a subtle  composition  and stunning  blend  of colors .
 :12 : However , over the last  century , artists  have experimented  a little , choosing  to add  figures  of different  proportions , birds , flowers  and animals .
 :13 : The creation  of a painting  is  a procedure  in stages  – first , a board  is prepared  and the painting , done  on unbleached  cloth , is fixed  to it.
 :14 : The drawing  is traced  on the board , the pieces  of glass , semiprecious  stones  and ornamental  pieces  are stuck  to the board .
 :15 : The outline  is then  painted  with the combination  of chalk  powder  and gum_Arabic , before gold_foil  is used  to increase  the opulence  of the painting .
 :16 : Finally , the dyes  are added  and the frame  is chosen .
 :17 : Nagercoil in the district  of Thanjavur, is  famous  for its artistic  brass  lamps .
 :18 : Known_as  Kuthu Vilakku, the brass  lamps  are used  for pujas and also  for decoration .
 :19 : Pick them up in various  patterns  and sizes  depending  on what you are looking_for .
 :20 : The metalware  of the Nagercoil is  distinctive   as_well  – have_a_look  at the tumblers , water  containers , spittoons  , bells  and candle  stands  being produced  by the bellmetal  workers ; you are  sure  to find  something  you like .
 :21 : While pottery  is  a thriving  business  all_over  the state , the famous  Ayyanar horses , made  in Salem  and Pudokottai in terra_cotta , are  a  must buy .
 :22 : Traditionally  believed  to provide  protection  against evil  in olden  times , each  village  was ‘guarded ’ by a large  terra_cotta  horse  station  at the entrance .
 :23 : Conventionally  made  by mixing  clay  with straw  and fashioning  each  part  individually  before joining  them, today , the popularity  of these items  have led  potters  to use  moulds  for terra_cotta  items .
 :24 : The gorgeous  and always  popular  silk  sari  from Kanchipuram is  usually  at the top  of just_about  anyone’s shopping_list , when they are  in 
 :25 : Tamil_Nadu .
 :26 : With designs  inspired  by nature , myth  and religion  woven  into silk , which is embellished  with gold  threads  and contrasting  border , they are  both sensuous  and dramatic .
 :27 : The pallu of the sari  is often  woven  separately .
 :28 : Weavers  of these Kanchipuram saris  claim  descent  from the illustrious  sage  Markanda, ‘the weaver  of gods ’, who, it is believed , wove  the first  fabric  ever , from the lotus  fiber .
 :29 : A visit  to any of the monuments  at Mamallapuram will give  you a good  idea  of the skill  possessed  by the craftsmen  in the area  since the time  of the Pallavas.
 :30 : Mamallapuram is  still  famous  for its finely  chiseled  sculptures , beautiful  detailing  and precise  measurements .
 :31 : Most  sculptures  are  religious  in nature  and borrow  heavily  from mythological  themes .
 :32 : Visit  the Mamallapuram school  of sculpture  to watch  the carvers  at_work  – and to pick_up  a souvenir  made  from granite  or soapstone  – a small  idol , a nameplate , or even  a garden  ornament .
 :33 : If stainless_steel  utensils  are  your weakness , then Chennai  is  the place  to shop  for them.
 :34 : The city  is lined_up  with shops  that have  everything you need  to stock  up your kitchen  shelves  with.
 :35 : One of the biggest  names  is  Rathna stores  in Pondy Bazaar , a sprawling  department_store  stacked  with rows  of utensils  that almost  touch  the ceiling .
 :36 : Pick_up  neat  tumblers  (the ones you need  for your   filter coffee ), bowls ,  tiffin carriers  (in more  shapes  and sizes  than you can think_of ), idli cookers  and various  containers  from one of the innumerable  shops  in Pondy Bazaar  an GN Chetty Road  in the bustling  T Nagar area . 
 :37 : I love  to shop  for my Kanchipuram Pattu saris  at Sundari Silks while making  a dash  across the road  for a plate  of hot  Murugan idlis and a cup  of south  Indian  decoction  coffee  at Panagal Park .
 :38 : Come  to Arunachal Pradesh, the last  frontier , for a close  encounter  with nature , or culture , or an especially  tranquil  retreat .
 :39 : Come  and experience  the splendour , friendliness  and colors  of its many   tribes  and festivals , come  to the land  of the Rising  Sun .
 :40 : Sunlight  plays  with darkness  at misty  Munnar, the quaint   hill station  in Kerala.
 :41 : Neelekurunji flowers , which bloom  once  in every  12  years , carpet  the serene  hills  of Munnar.
 :42 : Dadra & Nagar Haveli: with its sprawling  greens , serene  water_bodies , unfrequented  tree  – lined  streets , unyielding  forts  and mesmerizing  havelis, this tiny  dot  on the map  is cocooned  in its own  obscure  charm .
 :43 : Daman, a place  with seductive  and inviting  beaches  with warm  white  sands , well  manicured  gardens  and Portuguese  edifices  make  the idyllic  frame  of this quaint  land , pleasantly  free of crowd .
 :44 : Rediscover  a pace  of life  in Daman that is virtually  lost  to the modern  world .
 :45 : Indian  at_heart  but Portuguese  by appearance , a small  island  known_as  Diu, is  a destination  waiting  to be explored .
 :46 : Soak  in the sun  on Diu’s  unspoilt  beaches , enjoy  leisurely  rambles  on its narrow  lanes  and return  with unforgettable  memories  of its picture–book  landscape . 
 :47 : Lime  washed  churches , bustling  markets , rain  swept  beaches  and an unhurried  rhythm  of life   come  to this scenic  state , Goa , and get  acquainted  with the many  moods  of a tourist  heaven  that is  redolent  of a glorious  era  gone_by . 
 :48 : Exotic  wildlife , regal  structures  and platters  of scrumptious  eats  – the Mahatma’s State  Gujarat  has  more  facets  than we know  of it.
 :49 : Take_in  the entrancing  beauty  of Gujarat ’s stark  landscape , offset  by its colorful  people .
 :50 : Steeped  in spiritualism  and regal  splendour , Madhya Pradesh’s historic  places  and forts  figure  in every  traveller ’s itinerary .
 :51 :  :51 :  Maharashtra , restless  yet  serene , familiar  yet  mysterious , this western  stunner  of a state  is  full  of colorful  surprises .
 :52 : Although they share  the western  coast , lush ,  unspoilt  environs  and a heritage  and landscape  forever  marked  by Portuguese  colonists , Daman and Diu and Dadara & Nagar Haveli have markedly  different  experience  for a traveler .
 :53 : Located  at the mouth  of the river  Damanganga, on the Gulf  of Khambat, Daman is  home  to some of the most  magnificent  Portuguese  architecture  in India .
 :54 : Even  though most  people  come  here  to enjoy  either the well  – developed  Devka Beach  or the quieter  and more  pristine  Jampore beach .
 :55 : It is recommended  that one should take  a break  from sun  and sand  and instead, take  a walk  
 :56 : back  in time  at Nani Daman, or little  Daman, which is  home  to the gigantic  fort  of St.Jerome.
 :57 : After a day  or two  of revisiting  history , head  to Diu for a relaxing  beach  break .
 :58 : The island  may be  tiny  but it is generously  lined  with golden  beaches  and delightful  Portuguese  architecture .
 :59 : Finally , visit  verdant  Dadra & Nagar Haveli, which is designed  to relax  and soothe  with its landscaped  gardens , tranquil  forests  and picturesque  tribal  villages .
 :60 : Together , Daman, Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli can be compared  with the best  that India  has  to offer .
 :61 : A romantic   getaway , the Daman Ganga valley Resort , Silvassa, offers  plush  rooms   and a Roman  style  decor .
 :62 : The two  honeymoon  suites  in Daman Ganga valley Resort  are specially  designed  to make  you feel  like royalty , with their stylish  furniture , ornate  beds  and a balcony  to sit  and gaze  lovingly  into each other’s eye .
 :63 : The resort  also  offers  an ayurvedic massage  centre  and a souvenir  shop .
 :64 : There is  also  a good  pool  side  restaurant  and the garden  offers  great  barbecues  around a campfire .
 :65 : Set  in a Portuguese  – style  building , Ras Resort  is  located  on the banks  of Damanganga river .
 :66 : The tastefully  decorated  rooms  afford  either a view  of the river  or the manicured  lawns .
 :67 : You can while your days away at the swimming_pool,  the reading_room , the gym  or at the sauna .
 :68 : The stylish  restaurant , Bistro and Banyan Tree, also  offer  excellent  food , coupled with well  – stocked  bars .
 :69 : Ubadya, a local  version  of the Undhiyu of Gujarat , is  a mix  of vegetables  and beans  roasted  in an earthen  pot .
 :70 : Try  Ubadya at Kamat Ni Wadi, a garden  restaurant  at the Kamat’s resort  in Silvassa.
 :71 : The tribal  groups  have  an interesting  variety  of vegetables , flavoursome  wild  mushrooms , bamboo_shoots , rotis made  from various  flours , freshwater  crabs  and river  fish  like rohu and carp 
 :72 : While the tribal  food  is  not  usually  available  at hotels  and restaurants , it is  readily  available  in the small   eateries  of Dabra’s villages .
 :73 : Steamed  chickpea  cake  cut  into squares , Khaman is  extremely  popular  in Silvassa. 
 :74 : For Khaman and other   Gujarati  – style  delicacies , visit  Sai  Bhojanalaya, a favourite  restaurant  with  locals  in Panchayat Market .
 :75 : Visit  this unassuming  place , known_as  Patio, for the most  delectable  seafood  dishes .
 :76 : The pomfret  masala and the spicy  prawns  are  especially  mouth_watering .
 :77 : Get  lovely  gift  items  or just  explore  the town  by visiting  the market .
 :78 : Though Dadra & Nagar Haveli is  not  a typical  shopping  destination , it still  does offer  some  unique  and authentic  buys  at reasonable  prices .
 :79 : Invest  some  time  in combing  the place  and hunt  for small  markets  that hide  many  gems .
 :80 : A  must visit , however , is  the handicraft  centre  at the Tribal  Cultural  Museum  in Silvassa.
 :81 : In the Museum  you will find  excellently  crafted  bamboo  mats  and baskets , leather  slippers , wall_hangings , pottery  and bangles  made  of golden  – hued  torpe grass .
 :82 : The very  pulse of Silvassa, Kilvani Road  is  where the bulk  of the town ’s commerce  is concentrated . 
 :83 : Shop  for the clothes , shoes , watches  and more – take  a break  at one of the many  small   eateries  that surrounds  this area .
 :84 : You won’t feel  like an outsider  in tribal  country  for long  – the untouched  beauty  and simplicity  of Dadra & Nagar Haveli will draw  you right  in .
 :85 : It may be becoming  increasingly  popular  as a holiday  resort , but the real  treasures  of Dadra & Nagar Haveli lie  on the tranquil  trails  off its main  roads , where you will feel  as if the stretches  of roads  have been laid_out  especially  in your honour .
 :86 : The Damanganga river  divides  this sleepy  little   union territory  in two , with its three  main  towns , Silvassa, Khanvel and Dadra to the north , while the Western   Ghats  rise_up  in the south .
 :87 : What few  people  know  about this tiny   union territory  is  that it is  an idyllic  destination  for ecotourism  amidst unspoiled  forests  and verdant  meadows .
 :88 : Just  three  hours  from Mumbai  and two  hours  from Surat, Silvassa, the headquarters , is  a short  drive  off the Delhi  – Mumbai  highway , and easily  accessible . 
 :89 : Dadra & Nagar Haveli is  a boon  for families , 
 :90 : geared_up  for children  with parks  and gardens  at many  locations .
 :91 : There’s a cheerful  children ’s park  and  mini  zoo  at Silvassa Circle  and the Hirwa Van garden  (named  after a tribal  deity ) at Piparia.
 :92 : The Vasona Lion Safari is  another  place  that can be  very  exciting  for children ; a vast  area  of teak  plantation  and forests  off the Silvassa – Khanvel road  has been enclosed  to house  a few  captive  – bred  lions .
 :93 : Minibus  safaris  in the enclosure  offer  the excitement  of spotting  lions  in their natural  habitat  and you can imagine  for a few  moments  that you’re in the Gir Forests .
 :94 : Another  good  option  is  the Treat Resort , which has  a  water park , discotheque , pool  and variety  of indoor  and outdoor  games .
 :95 : The resorts  in Dadra & Nagar Haveli are  also  popular  for film  units , who find  these locales  convenient  for shoots  out of Mumbai .
 :96 : There’s bonus  of discovering  the tiny  tribal  villages  around Silvassa.
 :97 : The entrance  of Satmaliya Dapada Sanctuary  falls  on the Silvassa – Khanvel Road , but once  inside  one can find  oneself enjoying  a drive  on a jungle  trail  through mixed  forests  and teak  plantations .
 :98 : Drive  to the delightful  Khanvel Forest  Rest_House , a tastefully  constructed  complex  with attractive  brick  cottages .
 :99 : The Khanvel Forest  Rest_House  is  unfortunately  reserved  for government  staff , mainly  forest  department  visitors , but it’s a good  place  for a wander  around .
 :100 : Many  villages  belonging  to the main  tribal  groups  – the Warli, Kokna and Dudhiyas – can be visited  near Madhuban Dam .
 :101 : One can see  mud  plastered  houses  with thatched  roofs  and spotted  palias or totems  depicting  deities  and heroes  near their villages .
 :102 : You should talk  to your guide  (you must take  a guide  with you) about arranging  to eat  at one of the little  villages  you pass .
 :103 : The tribal  food  available  in villages  is  varied , with an interesting  variety  of vegetables , wild  mushrooms , bamboo_shoots , rotis made  from various  flours ,_fresh_water  crabs  usually  caught  during the full_moon  and river  fish  like rohu and carp .
 :104 : Pioneer Hotel ’s Polo Bar  is  on of the Silvassa’s most  popular  upmarket   watering holes  and known  for its Indian  seafood  dishes .
