Enjoy  the cocktails  on the lawn  and dinner  in the restaurant  Rio Bar, popular  with  locals  as well as tourists .
In hotel  Kohinoor you'll also  find  Diu's lone  disco , Footloose  go here  if you  want  to party  with Gujarati students  on a merry   nightout , but it's probably  better  to unwind  by opting  for a massage  at Ayura, the ayurvedic spa , instead .
Resort  Hoka is  located  near beautiful  and quiet  Nagoa beach ; this  atmospheric  little  hotel  name  comes  from the Hoka palms  surrounding  it.
In resort  Hoka there are  10  charming  yet spacious  rooms , with attached  bathrooms , each  with its own  verandah  or  sitout .
With direct  access  to Ghogla beach  this cosy  Suzlon Beach  Hotel  boasts  a pleasant  sea  facing  restaurant  and bar .
Don't leave  Diu without trying  the delicious  handmade  icecreams  and shakes  at this little  place , Shri Ram Vijay, near the main  town  square .
Peacock Bar  and Restaurant  is  one of the most  popular  restaurants  in Diu: this place  serves  tasty  tandoori pomfret  and excellently  prepared  grilled  fish  with lemon  butter  sauce .
Come  to Heranca Goesa for fantastic  Portuguese   Goan cuisine  at amazingly  affordable  prices .
In Heranca Goesa you have to book  dinner  by 10  am  so that the owners  can get  you the freshest  seafood .
Apana: this rooftop  restaurant  offers  a real  feast  for seafood  buffs  with a sea  view  to match .
Seafood  platter  with squid , kingfish , prawns  and crab  in Apana is  highly  recommended , as is  the pomfret  pulao, shark  tikka, kingfish  curry  and tandoori lobster .
Quirky  little  knickknacks  and export  surplus  bargains  is  what you can expect  to find  in Diu.
A fun  to shop  around for handicraft  as well as all  manner  of made  in China  goods , Diu's bustling  night  market  near the vegetable  market  (ask  any   local  for direction ) is  a  mustvisit  for every  traveler  in Diu, if only  for the atmosphere .
In the night  market  you will find  toiletries , cosmetics , watches , games  and great  gifts  to take_back  home .
 Handicrafts  in stone , metal  and shell  are  available  at this small  shop  known_as  Sarjan Art_gallery , near the main   petrol pump . 
You can also  find  colorful  saris  made  especially  for the weddings  and festivals  of fisher  folk , along with the white  cushion  covers  and mats  that will do your home  proud at Sarjan Art_gallery .
Bunder Chowk, a busy  little  shopping_centre , has  excellent  beachwear , shorts  and export  surplus  garments  that you can pick_up  for your seaside  holiday .
Even  as you enter  the state , you will begin  to see , and feel , why Goa  is  the favoured  destination  of travelers  from all_over  the globe .
As  vibrant  as Ibiza, as   atmospheric  as Venice , and filled_with  a warmth  and generosity  completely  its own , one can never  say  enough  about this wonderful  state , Goa .
You will be spoiled  for choice  in Goa   long  stretches  of pristine  sands , magnificent  churches  and cathedrals , rambling  forts  that have stood_guard  over sea  for centuries , sprawling  spice  plantation  and delightful  old  Portuguese  villas .
Look  no  further  than the heritage  houses  that now  serve  as renowned  hotels , the ethnic  restaurants   French , Italian  and best_of_all , Goan  that draws  celebrities  from all_over  the country  and of_course , the marvelous  antique  shops  and  designer  boutiques  that can give  the best  of the  metros  a  run for their money .
Visit  Goa  and experience  firsthand  how life  should really  be lived .
In Goa  give  the  glitzy  seaside  resorts  a miss , and head  to one of these delightful   boutique  hotels  or  eco friendly  lodges .
Nilaya Hermitage  hotel  promises  you the sun , moon  and stars , or that's how the airy , gorgeously  decorated  rooms  are themed  anyway .
With none of the cookiecutter  sameness  of larger  resorts , all  rooms  in Nilaya Hermitage  feature  different  color  schemes  and decor .
The beach  (and hence  the crowd ) is  a short  walk  away , but on lazy  days , you can lounge_around  the swimming_pool  or pamper  yourself at the luxurious  Ayurvedic centre .
Just a seashell   throw  from the Baga Beach , this is  one of the most  ambient  little   boutique  hotels  in the state .
The decor  in the Casa Baga, the owners  will have  you know , has been inspired  by Bali , which translates  into rattan  blinds , cool  stone  floors , appliqued  curtains , antique  Indonesian  furniture  and tons  of unusual  objets_d'art  . 
The rooftop  lounge , Casa Baga, offers  some  great  views  and you can party  the night  away  at the hip  Congo.
For the perfect  cleansing  of mind , body  and soul , head  to Pousada Tauma , colonial  style   boutique  hotels  with a  dash  of Ayurveda  thrown_in .
All  12  suites   beautifully  decorated  with antique  furniture , starched  linens  and striking  artwork   are clustered  around  a lovely  little  swimming_pool .
Hotel  Posada Tauma is  also  a treat  from the outside , right from the exposed  masonry  of the facade  to the palm lined  gardens .
Located  in a wooded  area , Bhakti Kutir comprises  a tiny  village  of 22  charming  thatched  cabanas , all built  with palm  leaves , bamboo  and clay .
Meditate  and practise  yoga  in the amphitheatre  and reward  yourself with mud_baths  and massages .
Run  by a British  couple , Yogamagic, is  almost   militantly   eco friendly  right  from the fantastic  all   vegetarian  cuisine  to facilities  built  from organic  resources  such as cow_dung ,  rammed  earth  and bamboo . 
While there are  lodges  and suites  on the premises  of Yogamagic Canvas Ecotel, opt  for the tents , all  decorated  with locally  made  furniture , silk  cushions  and colourful  furnishings .
Yogamagic Canvas Ecotel also  has  private  open_air  showers  and the  eco  toilets  (contribute  to the compost   proactively !); live  the simple  life  in style .
Located  at the mouth  of an estuary , where the Tiracol river  and the sea  meet , this wonderful  Tiracol Fort Heritage hotel  occupies  part  of the restored  16 th  century  Tiracol Fort .
Needless  to say , the views  of the undulating  blue  waters  are  majestic ; just  step_out  into your personal  balcony  to soak  in the salty  fresh  air .
The Tiracol Fort Hotel  is run  by the same  couple  who operate  the Nilaya Hermitage   German  fashion  stylist  Claudia Ajawni and her husband  Hari, so it is  little  wonder  that two  suites  and five  
double  rooms  are  elegant  and quaint , all  at the same  time .
Leave_behind  the frenetic   cigarettesandcoffee  pace  of the city , and head  to The Purple Valley Yoga  Centre  to soothe  your body  and soul .
The Purple Valley Yoga  Centre  is  a residential  yoga  school  and offers  an  invigoratingly  healthy  experience  in a beautiful  setting .
The yoga  taught  at this school  is  mainly  of the Ashtanga tradition ; take  the two week  course  for beginners , which includes  accommodation  and two  meals  a day , besides  classes .
All  meals  are   vegetarian , sumptuously  prepared , and are  served  buffet  style  in the communal  dining  areas .
Rooms  are  tastefully  decorated  and informed  by all  sorts  of spiritual  things .
Cozy Nook in Palolem does  a good  job  of living_up_to  its name .
Accommodation  in Cozy Nook includes  thatched  huts , tree_houses , and trendy  cottages  with quirky  bathrooms .
Cozy Nook resort  has  a communal   chillout  areas , where you can play  chess , read  a book  or listen  to music .
The restaurant  is  just  as  laidback , and features  floors   innovatively  tiled  with beer_bottle  caps ! 
Ask  the owner  to arrange  a night_time  boat  trip  to Butterfly beach .
 :54 : Casa Palacio Siolim House : Set  in a dignified  18 th  century  villa  in the quiet  coastal  village  of Siolim, this is  a wonderful  retreat  from the bustle  of the more  touristy  beach  (although Anjuna and Calangute are  less_than  10  km  away ).
A rather  decrepit  building  until as  early  as a decade  ago , it has been lovingly  restored  by its owner  into the beautiful  establishment  it is  today   motherof_pearl  windows , terra_cotta tiled  floors  and gorgeous  rooms .
Even_as  you tread  the creaky  bamboo  bridge  over the saltwater  creek  that connects  Mandrem Beach  to elsewhere, you will know  that you wouldn't want  to be  anywhere  else .
The feeling  only  becomes  stronger  as you come  face_to_face  with the terra_cotta  red  19 th  century  beach  villa , with its charming  blue  shutters  and tiled  roof .
Want  to be  closer  to the elements  then opt  for a Otter Creek Tents , surrounded  by greenery , the luxurious  tents ,  sit  right  on the banks  of a tiny  rivulet , which runs  parallel  to the beach .
Rich  in both  fire and flavour , and  laced  with more_than  a hint  of Portugal , Goan cuisine  is  defined  by the bounty  of the sea .
Britto: set  in a modest  Portuguese style  bungalow , Britto has  seating  arrangements  both  on the Verandah , and on the ridges  that slopes  down  to Baga beach .
Britto affords  beautiful  views , especially  at night , with the lighthouse  at Fort  Aguada on the left  and Baga hill  jutting_out  on the right .
Of_course , you are  far  more  likely  to be gazing  lovingly  at your sea_food  platter , which comes  complete  with prawns , calamari , pomfret , king_fish , oyster  and whichever other  edible  creatures  fished  up during the day  catch .
Sink  your teeth  into the sweet  crab_meat , slurp  up the delicious  juice  inside a mussel  and top  it all off with a glass  or two  of white_wine. 
Try  a slice  of Britto's dark_chocolate  cake  to end  your meal  on a mellow  note .
There is  live  entertainment  every  Monday  followed  by karaoke  every  Thursday  night .
Run  by Mrs Carafina Pereir, an impressive  matron  with even  more  impressive  culinary  skills , Martin's Corner near Betalbatim Beach  offers  fantastic  Goan fare  with some  Chinese  and Continental  thrown_in .
But when in Goa , eat  as  the Goan do ; the sausage  pulao is  excellent , as is  the fish  caldin, pomfret  cooked  in spicy  coconut  gravy .
For the  sturdyhearted , there is  the delicately  flavoured  ox  tongue  and the jumping  chicken  (something  that, in more  ways  than one , croaked ).
Sit  out in a courtyard  and wash the sea_food  down with some  chilled  beer , and more : SachinTendulakar loves  to eat  here .
No  trip  to Goa  is  complete  without an edible  souvenir  in the shape  of the famous  sweet  dish ,  Bebinca , a 16  layer  egg  and coconut_milk  cake , mostly  had  during the festivals  and other  occasions .
However   Bebinca , is  easily  available  at most  Goan bakeries  and a fairly  decent  version  of it sells  under the Costa's brand .
Something  of an institution , Souza Lobo's is  set  in a charming  Goan home  right  on the Calangute Beach , where tables  are  out in the evening .
Souza Lobo's been  around  since 1932  and is run  by Judd Lobo, the founder  great_grandson , and the keeper  of an enviable  cache  of secret  recipes .
The  eatery  has  a casual  shack like  atmosphere  and serves  some of the greatest  Goan food  in the region .
The fried  mackerel  is  crisp  and flavoursome , while the  tiger prawns  are  juicy  and succulent .  
Try  the fish_fillet  stuffed  with prawns  or the steamed  rice  with fish  in green  gravy .
End  the feast  with  Bebinca , and if you are  feeling  particularly  daring , a glass  of coconut  feni.
If you're looking_for  the ultimate  fine dining  experience , then head  to the Banyan Tree at the Taj Holiday Village.
As its name  suggests , the restaurant  is  set  in the shade  of a 300 year  old  banyan  tree , and is  made  even  more  appealing  by its shimmering  fish_pond .
Come  to The Banyan Tree to sample  excellent  Thai  cuisine , made  with fresh  catch  of the day .
Try  the poo gathi, which is  river  crab_meat_ in a spicy  curry  and the Pla Rad Prik (crispy  fried  fish ).
With spicy  masala mixes  you can recreate  the inimitable  tastes  and smells  of Goa  in your own  kitchen  , without spending  hours  at the mortar  and pestle .
Step  into any  large  provision  store  and stock  up on the spicy  masala mixes  responsible_for  those alltime  favourite  curries  : xacuti, cafreal, balchao, and vindaloo, you can have  them all  at home .
Also  worth  picking_up  are  the pungent  (stinky , say  some) Goan sausages , or chouricos, as they are  known  locally .
A fiercely  potent  drink , Feni is made  either of cashew  or coconut_palm . 
Feni is sold  under several  brand_names , but the ideal  drink  is  the one  concocted  at a Goan home  or a local  watering_hole .
Take  a_couple_of  bottles  of Feni back  home   whether you want  to gift  them to your friends  or enemies  depends  on your taste .
Rather  more  palatable  is  the locally  produced  port_wine , known_as  Vinho do Porto, while the better  port  brands  are  Bosco and Caravela.
For an authentic  Goan experience , visit  Astoria, run  by Ida and Edwin Fonseca out of a converted  old  home .
The ambience  in Astoria, a hotel cumrestaurant , is  reason  enough  to visit , although the pork  vindaloo with peas  will have  you clamouring  for a second , and then a third  helping .
To work_off  your excesses , set_out  to explore  the small  spice  and fruit  plantation  in Astoria.
Select  from the catch  of the day   lobsters , giant  crabs , tiger prawns  and ask  them to grill  it for you.
In Goa  the colourful  flea_markets  are  famous , but it is  the lovely  old  villas  that hide  the best  shopping   from antiques  to haute_couture .
A restored  white andblue  Portuguese  villa  with shady  balconies  all  around  it, Casa Goa is  the place  to go  for antique  furniture , paintings  and sculpture .
Leading  designer  Wendell Rodericks also  retails  here  at Casa Goa.
Wandering  around Sangolda, set  in a sprawling  old  Goan home , is  a real  pleasure .
Antiques  and contemporary  wrought_iron  furniture ,  swathes  of linen , brass  lamps , bricabrac  and crockery  are  just  a few of the lovely  things  available  in Sangolda.
For exquisitely  crafted  hand  printed  blue andwhite_ ceramic  tiles  called  Azulejos, head  to the Velha Goa Galleria in Panjim's  Fountainhas area   it is  the next  best  thing  to buying  them in Portugal .
The beautiful  tiles  are  available  in the form  of wallhangings , photo  frames , coasters , plates  and more .
Pick_up  one of the delightful  tiles  featuring  Mario Miranda's cartoons .
A vibrant  hub  where travellers  from all_over  the world  meet , the flea_market , known_as  Ingo's Saturday Night Market  offers  everything from Turkish  hookah  and Pashmina shawls , thorough rare  Sumerian  beads  and uncut  gems  to trance  CDs  and Gstrings .
Whether it is  dreadlocks  of afros , body  piercing  or tattoo  parlours  Ingo's has  it all.
Ingo is  foodies  heaven  too  ; sample  souvlaki , fondue , gazpacho  and more .
Even  better  you can shop  to the sound  of live  music , performed  by international  bands  in Ingo's.
