Kanti Kapasi was working  with a khadi  emporium  when he realized  that Ahmedabad needed  a comprehensive  handicraft  showroom  that could offer  the whole  range  of Indian  crafts  under one  roof .
The Kapasi Handicrafts  Emporium  was opened  in 1973  at Ashram Road  and has  now  something  of a household  name  in Ahemdabad.
The Kapasi showrooms  are also  geared_up  to transport  heavy  furniture , and even  air_freight  or ship  them overseas  – so those brightly  painted , authentic  Gujarati jhoola  need  not  remain  as a wistful  dream .
This Parsi  family  home  specializes  in the now  rare  gara saris , which were once  worn  extensively  during Parsi  ceremonies  and festivals . 
With their heavy  pallus, deep  colors  and intricately  embroidered  motifs , they are  quite  lovely .
Owned  by designer  (and NID alumnus ) Archana Shah, Bandhej is  something  of a pilgrimage  spot  for Gujarat ’s swish  set .
Come  to Bandhej for both  traditional  and ‘fusion ’ fashion  – all consistently  understated  and elegant .
A night  market  comes_up  every  evening  at Ahmedabad when  colorfully  dressed  artisans  put_up  their stalls  on the streets  outside the Law Garden .
With the mind_boggling  variety  of embroidered  dress  materials  and bedspreads  and all  types  of curios , the night  market  is  a 
 one–stop  shop  for speedy  souvenir  buying .
If buzzing  flea_market  is  your thing , also  visit  Ahmedabad's Sunday  market  near Ellis Bridge  – a good  place  for old  books . 
Trace  Gujarat  historical  and cultural  evolution  through the centuries  at the UNESCO  world  heritage  site  of Champaner – Pavagadh Archeological  park .
Not_far  from the bustling  city  of Vadodara, a high  timeless  reminder  of the rich  historical  heritage  of Gujarat  looms  up from the dusty  earth  – the 800 m  – high  Pavagadh hill , it’s ancient  reddish  yellow  stone  testifying  to the fact   that it is  India  one of the oldest  rock  formation .
Climb  to the top  of the hill , and you will be confronted  by the ruins  of a sturdy  fortress  built  by the Rajput  Kings  centuries  ago .
Enter  and you will see  a ghost  city  of palaces , temples , residential  precincts , agricultural  structures  and water  installation , each  telling  its fascinating  story  about a bygone  era . 
As you stand  at the summit , you will see  the town  of Champaner below , a town  that matches  Pavagadh  temple  for temple , palace  for palace , and legends  for legends .
So  enthralling  and unique  are  the historical  structures  here , more_than  114  of them in_all , that they have recently  been consecrated  as the ChampanerPavagarh Archeological  Park , and deemed  a World  Heritage  site  by the UNESCO . 
Needless  to say , ChampanerPavagarh is  like  no  other  in the way  it encapsulates  the triumphs  and glories , trials  and tribulations  of a succession  of centuries .
A solid  historian  will tell  you that Champaner's evolution  can be traced  as  far  back  as the beginning  of civilization  in India , with several  
pre_historic  sites  dotting  the landscape  around it.
The town  as we see  today , however , came  into its own only  in 8 th  century  AD , when the most  famous  of the Chavda Rajput , Vanraj Chavada, made  it his capital  – according  to the legend , the king  named  the town  after his friend  and general  Champaraj.
As one stands  surrounded  by the stillness  of the ruins  one can well  imagine  the town  at the height  of its glory  as the capital  of Chavdas.
A time  when royal  patronage  attracted  thousands  of artisans  and architects  to Champaner, where they stayed  to build  temples , water   tanks , landscaped  gardens  and granaries  to stock  the bounty  from each  season  harvest .
Iridescent  kingfishers , pink  flamingos , pelicans , rare  species  of eagles  and much  more , Gujarat  is  sure  to delight  bird_watchers  from all_over  the world .
Due_to  its many  wetlands  and its strategic  location  on the north  south  bird  migratory  path , Gujarat  is  a birder  paradise .
The nearest  airport  to Nalsarovar Bird_Sanctuary  is  Ahmedabad (60 km ); the closest  airport  to the Little Rann of Kutch is  Ahmedabad (105  km )  take  a train  to Dhrangadhra (22  km ), and hire  a cab .  
The colors  and texture  of Gujarat  are  at their most  varied  and vibrant  in the district  of Kutch, where embroidery  thrives  as an intricate , precious  art .
Gujarat  has  a rich  tradition  of producing  fine  handicrafts  such as textiles , furniture  and jewellery , but nowhere  is  this impressive  heritage  more  evident  than in Kutch, a land  occupied  by nomadic  tribes  who have refined  their craft , especially  embroidery  into fine_arts .
A full –day  tour  around Bhuj is  a good  way  to shop  for embroidered  fabrics , as you can watch  the craftsmen  at work , get  pieces  customized  and ensure  that the benefits  are going  to the needy  artisans .
There are  various  techniques  of embroidery  that exist  in the district , including  those of Hindu  groups  like the Rabaris and the Ahirs, Islamic  pastoral  groups  like the Jaths, Halepotras and Muthwas, the Sodha Rajputs  who migrated  from the Thar Parkar region  of Sindh, and the Meghwal Harijans .
Each  tribe  developed  its own  signature  style  and this is  most  apparent  in the case  of embroidery .
If you prefer  simple  needlework , you are  sure  to like  Bavalia embroidery  which employs  the button_hole_stitch  or cross_stitch  method .
If brilliant  colors  and mirror  work  appeals  to you, then the bright  red  and yellow   of Banni embroidery  is  what you should go_for .
The embroidery  of Rabaris is inlaid  with triangular , square  and almond  shaped  mirrors , which lends  it that gorgeous  richness . 
Ahir embroiderers  create  geometric  and floral  motifs  interspersed  with striking  mirror  work , the Jaths use  chain_stitch  with tiny  mirrors , the Sodha Rajputs  are  skilled  in delicate  soof embroidery , while the Hali Putras and Rasipotra herdsmen  produce  mukka embroidery .
Stop  at Hodka, which offers  an insight  into a cross_section  of embroidery  as_well  as other  crafts  like the rare  Ragan – painted  fabrics  – stay  at the NGO run  Shaam–e–Sarhad Rural Resort , all  mud  huts , local  food  and rustic  yet  comfortable  ambience .
Other  than its renowned  embroidery , Kutch also  specializes  in block  printing  with vegetable  dyes .
Bright  Ajrakh prints  are still  used , and the region  also  boasts  of the highest  intensity  of bandhini dyeing  – the price  depends  not_only  on the fabric , but also on the number  of times  it has to be tied  and dyed .
For floor_coverings  you can try  Kharal, a traditional  
floor  spread woven  entirely  from camel  and goat  hair .
Visit  Kutch to truly  experience  the rich  tapestry  of colors  that is  Gujarat .
Bhuj is  well  connected  by air  to Mumbai  and Ahmedabad, and to explore  the crafts  villages  of the area , it is  best  to have a good  tour  operator  chalk_out  an itinerary  for you.
The average  Gujarati  is  an enthusiastic  participant  in over 2 ,000  festivals  every  year , but nothing  brings_out  the best  in him as do two  specially  cherished  celebrations  – the Kite  festival  in Uttarayan and the delirious  elation  of Navaratri.
In Gujarat  Uttarayan is celebrated  in the middle  of January  and signifies  the end  of winter  and coming  of spring .
For a week  people  from all_ walks_of_life , and age  be damned , fly  kites  with abandon , creating  patches  of every  imaginable  color  in the blue  sky  above .
Even  night  can not  stop  the kite  flying  craze , because as  soon  as the sun  sets , illuminated  box_kites  dot  the night  sky .
Known_as  Tukkals, a special  kind  of kites , are often  strung  together  in a line , adding  to the beauty  of the festival .
Crowds  gather  on roof_tops  and open  fields  in friendly  rivalry  to show_off  their kite –flying  skills . 
The festival  also  draws  kite  flying  enthusiasts  from around the world , who bring  their own  distinctive  kites  with them and add  to the vibrancy  of the festival 
The epicenter  of kite  flying  during Uttarayan is  definitely  in the capital  Ahmedabad, and this is  the place  to be  if you want  to soak  in the atmosphere  of the festival .
The city  Patang Bazaar  sees  brisk  business  as kites  are  bought  in bulk , and the market  remains  open  all  day  to satisfy  the thousands  who just  can’t get  enough  of this sport .
Taking  a break  from kite  flying  is  equally  rewarding , for waiting  in the wings  is  a whole  spread  of delectable  savouries  and sweets .
In October , the streets  of Gujarat  are filled  
once_again  with people  heading  out to different  venues  to dance  the night  away .
The occasion  is  Navaratri, which celebrates  the victory  of good  over evil , and is  a time  of dancing  as much as of worship .
Held  over nine  nights , Navaratri celebrations  in Gujarat  see  young  men  and women  looking  their best .
The women   go to great lengths  to find  that perfect  Ghagra Choli, while the men  fuss  over their colorful  turbans  and starched  Kurtas .
In the midst  of all  the excitement , revelers  hold  on top  the most  important  accessory  during the Navaratri , the Dandiya – the Dandiya Rasa is  a more  popular  Navaratri dance  form  than the Garba, and it is  easy  to see  why.
Dandiya Rasa celebrates  the community  spirit  and togetherness , as dancers  move  in a circle  constantly  interacting  with their neighbor  through striking  the Dandiya.
The tempo  of the dance  increases  with time , until it is  a blur  of whirling  people  and clashing  of Dandiyas, hypnotic  for those who watch .
The Garba on_the_other_hand , is  an equally  fascinating , although a little  more  complex  dance .
Women , who participate  in Garba, balance  a decorated  pot  on their heads  and dance  to the songs  sung  by fellow  women  to the beat  of a Dholak.
Although Navaratri celebrations  are  spectacular  all_over  Gujarat , Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Ambaji, and Poshina are  some  areas  where celebrations  are  particularly  grand .
Madhya Pradesh is  truly  the heart  of India ; not  just  by virtue of its location , but also  because of its rich  and varied  heritage . 
Every  traveler  makes_a_point  to visit  the state ’s three  UNESCO  world  Heritage  stupas – the almost  perfectly  preserved  stupas  at Sanchi will draw_in  others just  as they did emperor  Ashoka centuries  ago .
Khajuraho  will enthrall  you with the craftsmanship  of its world  –famous  carvings , while the ancient  paintings  of Bheembetka will take  you back  to the prehistoric  times .
Then there are  well  preserved  forts  and palaces  of Gwalior, Orchha and Mandu, guaranteed  to transport  you to a glorious  era  in Madhya Pradesh's history .
Also  certain  to delight  are  the pilgrimage  sites  of Ujjain, Omkareshwar, Maheshwar and Amarkantak, with their beautiful  temples  in lush  riverside  settings .
Needless  to say , nature  has been exceedingly  generous  to Madhya Pradesh, making  the state  a paradise  for wildlife  enthusiasts  – go  on exciting  tiger  safaris  in Kanha, Pench and Banhdavgarh, or simply  soak  in the green  beauty  of Pachmarhi, the state  only   hill station .
It is  no  exaggeration  to say  that Madhya Pradesh is  a paradise  for all  travelers .
Choose  from jungle  retreats  and heritage  hotels  in forts  and palaces , or just  opt  for a tiny  guesthouse in the back_of_beyond .
The hunting  lodge  of the Maharaja  of Orchha once  stood  on this lavishly  decorated  hotel  known_as  Bundelkhand Riverside painstakingly  built  by Madhukar Shah, the heir  to a long  line  of Maharajas , who chose  virtually  every  tile  that makes_up  the structure .
Set  in over 50  acres  of forest , the Bundelkhand Riverside palace  stands  on the banks  of the Betwa river .
Royally  furnished , with colonial  touch , the 29  rooms  are  airy  and spacious , and most  afford  great  views  of the river .
The hotel  has  a charming  bar  and one of the best  restaurants  gracing  these parts .
Gaze  out of any  window  or terrace  of hotel  Sheesh Mahal, right  within the walls  of the Jehangir fort  palace , and a breathtaking  view  of the medieval  town  of Orchha will stretch  before you. 
From Sheesh Mahal you can see  palaces , cenotaphs , and the spires  of the Ramrajya and Cahturbhuj temple .
Named  after the mirrors  that cover  every  wall , the hotel  has  eight  rooms  – 
 go in for  one of the luxurious  royal  suites , with their antique  furniture  and massive  marble  bathrooms .
Stay  in the cottages  in Kipling Camp , and you'll never  want  to leave  this idyllic   getaway .
Owned  by the Wrights, a British  family , the Kipling Camp  in Kanha is  comfortably  furnished  with spacious  verandahs  where you can gaze  into the surrounding  sal forest  and watch  langurs  and 
 spotted deer  and other  animals  amble  by .
In Kanha you can even  meet  Tara, the elephant  made  famous  by Mark Shands in his book  Travels on my Elephant.
In Kipling Camp  meals  are  fairly  good  and you can request  the chef  to  rustle up  your favourite  food  too .
Picnic  breakfast  can be arranged  for the morning  safari  around the park .
If only  for the magnificent  view  of Narmada, as it courses  gently  between the impressive  Marble  rocks , try  booking  a room  in Circuit House, Bhedaghat, a Government  Guest House.
Perched  on a cliff  overlooking  the river , the tranquility  and scenic  surroundings  make_up  for the barebones  facilities .
However , if you are  picky  about what you eat , then it’s a good  idea  to pack  some  supplies .
Overlooking  the calm , azure  waters  of the Chandapata lake  and near the Bhadiya Kund near natural_springs , are  the red  – tiled  cottages  run  by the Madhya Pradesh state  tourist  corporation .
Cheerfully  furnished ,  each  cottage  stands  in a private  nook , undisturbed  by other  visitors .
The staff  of Tourist  village , Shivpuri, is  friendly , the service  is  efficient  and the meal  is  surprisingly  good .
From Tourist Village  you can hear  the sounds  of the wildlife  and birds  of the Madhav National_Park  and the splash  of crocodiles  as they swim  in the lake .
For an illusion  of living  in the distant  past , there's no  better  place  than Ahilya Fort , the palace  – hotel  within  the Maheshwar Fort , where the venerated  Queen  Ahilyabai once  lived .
Ahilya Fort  is  now  owned  by the Holkar Family , erstwhile  rulers  of Malwa, some of the old  chambers  have been converted  into comfortable  bedrooms , with magnificent  view  of the Narmada river , ghats  and temples .
Steps  lead  down  to the river  ghats  from where you can look  up  at the soaring , golden  spires  of the several  temples  dotting  the area .
You can also  look_forward  to the excellent  meals  served  in the garden  –  gourmet  cuisine  fit  for a Maharaja  and breakfast  served  on the ramparts  of the fort .
The best  place  to stay  in Bandhavgarh National_Park  is  the Taj Group's wilderness  lodge , Mahua Kothi.
Mahua Kothi is  not_only  comfortable  and  eco–friendly , its guides  are  excellent  – they love  the park  and it shows .
You can gaze  at the Narmada river  flowing  past  the spectacular  Marble  Rocks  from the comfortable  rooms  and well_kept  lawns  of this charming  Motel , Marble Rocks. 
Motel  is equipped  with all  mod_cons , but the peace  and the quiet  is broken  only  by the roar  of the  Dhuandhar falls , a short  distance  away .
There is  a good  restaurant  in Motel , Marble Rocks, something  of a rarity  in this area .
Against the  backdrop  of the forested  Satpura hills  in Seoni district , is  the Pench jungle  camp , heaven  for wildlife .
Pench Jungle  camp  is  situated  right  where Mowgli ran  with the wolves  in Kipling  The Jungle Book.
And indeed  jungle  sounds  will lull  you to sleep  in this wilderness  retreat ,Pench Jungle  Camp , located  near Pench National_Park , in Avraghani village .
In Pench Jungle  camp  you will camp_out  in deluxe  tents , equipped  with all  the comforts  of running  water , battery  – charged  electricity  and cosy  furniture .
