Wickerwork  containers  work  as great  laundry  or picnic  baskets  and the conical  Kangris can be used  as planters ; shop  around Hazratbal in Srinagar for these.
There are  a hundred  different  types  of little  boxes  for trinkets , jewellery , cigarette  and many  other  things  available  in walnut  wood  and papier_mache  (both of which are  famous  across the world ) with colourful  designs  and patterns .
You can take  your pick  from the shop  lining  Polo View Road  and Lambert Lane  in Srinangar.
If you are  a weekend  cricketer , do try  to get_hold  of the highly  prized  willow  cricket_bat .
Wood  from three  parts  of the walnut_tree  from the branches , the trunk  and the root  is used  to make  Kashmiri  furniture .
Root  wood  items  are  the costliest , but also  the (and for some, because) most  desirable .
You may find  people  selling  Kashmiri  carpets  all_over  the world , but for the most  wonderful  patterns  and designs , buy  from the source .
Choose  from these two  varieties  Namadah and Gabba.
The traditional  Namadah is  a rug  made  of felt  and beaten  wool , and embroidered   colorfully .
The Gabba is  old  blankets  made  beautiful  with applique  work  and chain_stitch  embroidery  on a sombre   background .
Anantnag, 55  km  from Srinagar, is  known  for Gabbas.
Kashmiri  Pashmina, silks  and embroideries  don’t need  introductions .
You can get  traditional  Pherans, or more  modern  versions , as Salwar Kameez  fabric , conventionally  sized  shawls  or the more  contemporary  stoles .
In shawls , embroidered  Amli, soft  Pashminas , woven  Kani, and beautifully  worked  Jamavars are  all  desirable .
In the food , stock  up on the best , Saffron  and Pampore.
The fragrant  Kahwa, sacks  and crates  of apples , walnuts , almonds  from all_over  Kashmir.
Do try  Kachha Badams, they are  soft  and have  a distinct  taste .
Pure  Amber colored  honey , special  Kashmiri  chillies  and delicious  apricot  jam  from Ladakh.
Arguably  the state  most  popular  festival , the Ladakh Festival  attracts  visitors  from all_over  the world .
Over a span  of 15  days , you will be overwhelmed  by the pomp , gaiety  and pageantry  of Ladakh's centuries  old  cultural  heritage .
In Ladakh Festival , you are  sure  to enjoy  the distinctive  dance  and music  of the region , masked  dances  by the Lamas  of select  monasteries , the signature  polo  tournament , and the time_honored  village  archery  competitions .
Kashmir has accurately  been described  as paradise  on earth .
The JashneKashmir Festival   showcases   folk  plays , dance , music , poetry , food  and handicrafts  over four  days  (October November ) at the most  scenic  destinations  in the valley .
The three  day  Jammu Festival  celebrates  the history  of this ancient  town  every  spring .
Our country  takes its name  and identity  from this historic  river  and the three  day  Sindhu Darshan Festival  in Leh every  summer  .
Millions  of devotees  throng  to Jammu every  year  to celebrate  the nine  day  Navratri Festival  with much  pomp  and show .
Characterized  by a rich  cultural  history , great  infrastructure  and warm  and hospitable  people , Punjab or ‘the land  of five  rivers ’ is  one of India's most  colorful  state .
You can spend  a week  or more  here .
Make  Amritsar your starting_point , and whether you’re awed  by the sheer  beauty  and serenity  of the famous  Golden  Temple  or choose  a more  contemporary  way  of relaxation  at the Svaas Spa .
There's plenty  to do  in Amritsar, which has  an atmosphere  all  its own .
A visit  to the Wagah border  is  also  a must 
Drive  past the green  gold  mustard  fields , be mesmerized  by the thumping  rhythm  of the Bhangra dance , indulge  in exquisite  Phulkari embroidery , and have  your fill  of lassi; you will leave  Punjab with plans  for your next  visit .
Located  in the heart  of Jalandhar, Radisson Windsor Hotel  is  a visual  treat , incorporating  the best  of Roman  and Victorian  architecture .
Hotel  Radisson Windsor's pristine  white  exterior , with classical  columns  and arches , welcomes  you into a space  where service  and facilities  are  all  topnotch .
There is  a lot  going for thrill  seekers  at Kikkar Lodge  situated  on the outskirts  of Ropar.
Off the main  highway  and surrounded  by hills  and dense  foliage , you can even  stay  in airconditioned  tents  and extend  your adventure .
Golden  Temple : staying  at this world  famous  shrine  is  truly  special .
The rooms  come  at nominal  charges  and you’ll wake_up  every  morning  to the mellifluous  sounds  of the Bhajans and Gurubani.
A landmark  hotel  in Amritsar, Ritz Plaza was established  in 1963  and, over the years, has been  home  to several  illustrious  personalities  including  Queen  Elizabeth .
Hotel  Ritz Plaza comes  with the distinction  of being  the first  centrally  air_conditioned  hotel  in the state .
Spread over two  acres , the 50  rooms  and suites  here  are  spacious  and well  appointed , and the food  scrumptious , order  anything .
A 250  year  old  manor , a fragrant  spa , gracious  staff  and a superior , quiet  location , Ranjit's Svaasa is  where you can lead  the good  life .
Once  a guesthouse  for British  guests  of Rai Bahadur Rattan Chand Mehra, its prominent  era , tall  palms  and large  lawns  greet  you here , and antique  mementos  and quirky  curios  vie  for your attention .
Ranjit's Svaasa's red  and white  brick  building  houses  large  rooms  that are done  up tastefully , with huge  windows  that frame  the best  views  of the city .
Choose  between Colonial Suite  and Svaasa Suite , order  in the special  Masala Chai, and you will want  to stay  here  forever .
You will definitely  enjoy  the typical  Punjabi fare , but at Rangla Punjab it’s more about the experience , something  you will cherish  forever .
Most of us are  no  strangers  to Naan and Kulcha, the mouthwatering  Amritsar versions  of these popular  breads  have  no  peer.
With their special  flaky  texture , and flavour , Naan and Kulcha breads  are  available  at most   eateries  in Amritsar.
No  Amritsar itinerary  is  complete  without the Phirni cooked  in Kesar da Dhaba, a 100  year  old  kitchen .
Made  of rice  flour , sugar  and milk , Phirni is cooked  over slow  fire  for hours  before it is chilled  in earthen  bowls  and served  fresh .
You can try  the Punjabi Thali that consists  of Parantha, Dal (which is cooked  for 12  hours ) and vegetables  all  delectable .
The Bhog (better  known_as  Karah Prassad) at the Golden  Temple  of Amritsar, is  special  not  just  because it is  sanctified  but also  because it tastes  absolutely  heavenly .
The same goes_for  the Gurudwara's Langer, a community  meal , where hundreds  of people  eat  wholesome   vegetarian  food  cooked  by thousands  of volunteers  every  day .
 Musttry  is  the Kheer served  on Sunday  in the Langer.
Sample  the steaming  sarson ka saag served  with maaki ki roti glazed  with butter  and you will start  to believe  in god .
People  drive  miles  to eat  at Haveli, a dhaba at the Heritage Village on the outskirts  of Jalandhar.
If you wish  to enjoy  a traditional  Punjabi breakfast  in Amritsar, just  walk  into Kanha Sweets on Lawrence Road  and stuff  yourself silly with their aloopuri.
Round_off  the meal  with a glass  of lassi at Gyanji ki Lassi nearby .
Til ka Bugga and Gur ka Halwa, without doubt , are  Punjab's best  winter  desserts , easily  available  in most  cities .
Til ka Bugga is  a dry  sweet  made  from sesame_seeds , while Gur ka Halwa is  simply  jaggery  simmered  until it reaches  the consistency  of Halwa.
Punjabis  have made  both  butter  chicken  and chicken  Tikka Masala popular  all_over  the world .
Small_time  Dhabas often  do  a better  job of butter  chicken  than fancy  restaurants , though all  major   eateries  will serve  it.
The  multi  cuisine  restaurant  Astoria promises  you one of the finest  dining  experiences  in this city  full  of great   eateries .
If you possess  a sweet_tooth , head  straight  to Jaggi Sweet Patiala for nearly  90  different  varieties  of sweetmeats .
Over 50  years  old , it has recently  introduced   sugarfree  mithais for the more  health  conscious .
Batala, Amritsar and Hoshiapur are  known  for their exquisite  wooden  beds  with engraved  and  mirrored  backrests .
You can also  buy  charmingly  designed  Peerhis and Pawas (legs  for tables , chairs  or beds ).
Furniture  often  boast  a glossy  lacquer  finish  or are  adorned  with mirrors  or ivory  inlays .
Amritsar was  once  a link  between Peshawar  and Kolkata , and Afghan  traders  carrying  tea_leaves  frequently  passed  the city .
Even  today  Katra Ahluwalia in Amritsar remains  the wholesale  market  for hundreds  of varieties  from granules , to large  leaves  to ones that cure  insomnia .
If statistics  are  anything  to go_by , shawls  are  big_business  in Amritsar.
There are  50  wholesale  stores  that stack  only  shawls  in Amritsar.
The variety  is  mind_boggling , the price  extremely  reasonable ; these colourful  and warm  shawls  are  a  must buy .
Sarkanda is  a kind  of thick , wild  grass  that grows  all_over  the countryside  and was once  used  to make  roofs .
These days  however , the thinner  version  is used  to weave  carpets , curtains  and fans  such as the popular  Peshawari Pankha or the delicate  Kundaladar Pakkhi with curled  ends .
Sarkanda is  interwoven  with coloured  cotton  threads  to create  fine_looking  Chiks, Pitarian, (storage  containers ) and Moodas (stools ).
In Punjab, a girl  trousseau  always  includes  a  Dhurrie that she weaves  herself.
Most of the Dhurries are  adorned  with stripes , chessboard  patterns , squares  or animal  and bird  motifs .
Available  in most  cities  of Punjab, these Dhurries will add  charm  to the most  boring  interiors .
The city  of the Golden  Temple  also  happens  to be  the hub  of metal  crafts .
Craftsmen  use  different  kinds  of techniques  such as Repousse (ornamenting  or shaping  a malleable  metal  by hammering  from the  reverse  side ), etching , engraving  and casting , to make  panels , doors , windows  and lampshades .
Balwant Singh Majithewala runs  a nondescript  shop  of Jooties, not  too  far  from the Golden  Temple  in Amritsar
He sells  exquisite  Jooties and claims  that his family  has been  in the business  for over 200  years .
You just  can’t leave  without buying  a pair  of handcrafted  plain  or embroidered  Jooties.
There are  so many  Papad and Vadi shops  near the Golden  Temple  that you’ll be forgiven  for taking  them for Punjab's staple  food .
Papads are made  from several  varieties  of lentils  and can be  either mild  or extremely  spicy .
A great  place  to pick_up  Jooties, Phulkari fabric  and Parandis, browse  through the Qila Bazaar  in Patiala and you may end_up  with some  rare  treasures .
If there's a special  occasion , you can be  sure  that most  Punjabis  will don  a bright  dress  embellished   alluringly  with traditional  Phulkari embroidery ; geometric  but intricate  hand embroidery  usually  done on hand spun cloth  in deep  shades  of maroon , magenta  and orange .
Most of unmarried  women  ink  the trousseau , it is said  that the minute  a girl  child  is  born , the mother  or grandmother  starts  to work_on  one.
Such embroidered  bedspreads  and salwar  kameezes  can easily  be bought  from any of the big  cities  of Punjab.
Image  yourself casting  a fly  for game_fish  in the crystal_clear  waters  of the Chambal, or taking  a trip  down time  to the accompaniment  of Mand, a folk_music  form .
All  this and more is  what Rajasthan, Asia  premier  tourism  hotspot , offers .
Rajasthan is  the  jewel  in India  tourism   crown .
A visit  to Rajasthan is  an experience  like none  other, a treasure_trove  of offering  that represent  the best  of the Orient .
Timeless  forts  and palaces , each with tales  of chivalry , intrigue  and love , the unsurpassed  variety  of terrain , unique  cuisine  and a shopper  paradise  every  turn , every  hamlet , every  lane  has  a surprise  waiting .
With fares and festivals  all through the year , different  circuits , good  air , rail  and road  connectivity , Rajasthan welcomes  every  tourist , domestic  and international .
The backpacker , the birder , the pilgrim , Rajasthan beckons  them all.
One doesn’t really  see  India  unless one visits  Rajasthan: remember , hospitality  for us is  a way_of_life .
Rajasthan symbolizes  Indian  exotica at its best   romance , royalty , radiance , rich  heritage .
Jaipurs Rajvilas is  an ideal  retreat  when you are  in the mood  to pamper  yourself.
