Castle  Pachar, Sekhawati, is  more  like an old  family  haveli than an opulent  palace  and it wears  a cloak  of faded  charm  that instantly  puts  you at ease .
Guest   tend  to converge  to the colourful  Rang Mahal, a hall  decorated  with family  heirlooms , on winter  evenings  while the neat  lawns  dotted  with trees  draw  you out during he day .
Lake  Palace  of Udaipur is  stunning ; this  beautiful  Palace  seems  straight  out of a fairy_tale  and promises  a  onceinalifetime  experience .
Lake  Palace  is built  on a small  island  in the middle  of the Lake  Pichola; this 18 th  century  palace  makes  a great  romantic   getaway , especially  in winter .
The brainchild  of French  fashion_designer  Michele Klein, Hotel  Kill Bhavan,  sits  on the ramparts  of Jaisalmer's magnificent  sandstone  fort .
One of the largest  private  residences  in the world , Umaid Bhawan Palace  was the first  Indian  Palace  to use  air_conditioners  and elevators .
An outstanding  example  of Art_Deco  architecture , Umaid Bhawan Palace  grandness  continues  well  into the interiors , with rich  paintings  depicting  scenes  from the Ramayana , richly  decorated  ceilings  and antique  furniture .
Alwar's Amanbagh, a fine  example  of Mughal architecture , meaning  ‘a peaceful  garden ’, is  one of the most  luxurious  stay  options  in all of Rajasthan.
Take  your pick  from Pool Pavilions Courtyard Haveli, Garden  Haveli and Terrace  Haveli rooms  in Amanbagh, so  named  for the fine  views  that they afford .
Where most  heritage  resorts  in Rajasthan revel  in their vibrant , overthetop  interiors , Devigarh Udaipur is  one which steers  clear  of all such frivolous  ostentation .
Every_inch  a Rajput fort , Devigarh is complete   with towers , turrets  and battlements : the interiors  are  another  story .
You are  sure  to be  surprised  but definitely  soothed  by the cool , neutral  tones  of your suite .
Located  on the outskirts  of Jaipur, Choki Dhani is  a 
 five star  village  resort  with beautifully  designed  huts  and royal  suites .
Spread  over  10  acres , Chokhi Dhani ethnic  village  comes  complete  with painted  mud plastered  walls , antique  furniture , clay  pots , puppets  and much  more .
It is  rare  to find  a luxury  campsite  built  around a water_body  in the heart  of Rajasthan's desert  land  and that’s precisely  why  Chhatra Sagar Pali scores . 
In Udaipur the  glacial  white  Shiv Niwas Palace  looks  especially  spectacular  in the harsh  light  of the summer  sun .
The inside  of Shiv Niwas Palace  is  a veritable  
treasure_trove  of antique  furniture , spectacular  chandeliers , portraits  of the royal_family  and amazing  collection  of original  paintings  and miniatures . 
Dundlod Fort  is  200  year  old  fort  with 24  rooms  and frames  a spacious  courtyard .
Each  room  offers  brilliant  views  from the balcony .
You are  sure  to appreciate  the period  furniture  and the vast  library  of Dundlod Fort .
You can even  go riding  if you like ; Thakur Raghuvendra Singh, the present  owner  of Dundlod Fort , keeps  a good  stable .
If you're planning  to go tiger  tracking  in Ranthambore, make  Sher Bagh your base   you'll just  love  staying  in these luxury  tents .
Designed  like the luxury  Shamianas both  Rajput  and Moghul  rulers  preferred  when on Shikaar, they promise  all  the modern  amenities  you could ask  for.
Sensitively  restored  and tastefully  renovated , Neemrana Fort  Palace  stands  well  away  from the hustle  and bustle  of big  cities , near Alwar.
Each  room  of Neemrana Palace  comes  with a refreshing  view  of the Aravali range .
As we all know  Rajputs  were  prolific  hunters  who took  great  pleasure  in enjoying  the spoils  of their hunts : mutton , of_course , was preferred  to chicken  and the Kachawaha clan  of Jaipur even  came_up  with its own   signature recipe  Safed Maans, mutton  cooked  in a rich  curry  of cashew_nuts , almonds , fresh  coconut , white_pepper  and poppy_seeds .
Pyaaz Kachoris from Jodhpur are   sinfully  rich  and, eaten  with a steaming  cup  of tea , will send  you straight  to heaven .
The sweet  Mawa Kachori is first  stuffed  with 
dried_fruits , then  deep_fried  and finally  dipped  in sugar_syrup .
The salty  Pyaaz Kachori is stuffed  with onions  and potatoes  and deep_fried .
Try  Janta Sweet Home or Jodhpur Sweet, both  near the railway_station , Jodhpur.
Because of its arid  land , Rajasthan cannot sustain  many  vegetables ; hence  some of the state ’s best_known   vegetarian  dishes  rely  on the use  of Besan (gram flour ).
The most  popular , Gatte ki Sabzi, is  Besan dumplings  dunked  in a gravy  of onion  and curd .
Linked  irrevocably  with the monsoon  festival  of Teej, a Ghevar is  a round  Maida cake  sweetened  with sugar_syrup .
Several  variations , including  Ghevar with Khoya, cream  or paneer are  also  available  these days .
Buy  from the famous  Laxmi Mishthan Bhandar, better  
known_as  LMB, at Johri Bazar  in Jaipur.
No  Indian  is  a stranger  to the Bhujjias and savouries  of Bikaner.
Thanks  to Haldiram's, these Bhujjias are  now  available  across the country .
In Bikaner, try  the Papads and Vadis as_well , all widely  available  across the city .
Pushkar is  known  the world  over  for its colorful  cattle  fair , but its delicious ,  meltinyourmouth  Malpuas are  still  a well_kept  secret .
Hundreds  of sweet  shops  string  up every  year  during the fair , where you can try  these pancakes  (Malpuas) made of refined  flour  dipped  in sugar_syrup .
When the royal_family  of Mewar was forced  to  take to  the jungles  to escape  Moghul  onslaught , they devised  a type  of barbecue  food  called  Sula.
As you walk  the streets  that lead  to the Chishti Dargah, Ajmer, you'll spot  several  shops  selling  the city  fabled  Sohan Halwa, a grainy  rich  sweet  that with just  the right  amount  of sugar .
DalBaatiChurma, is  typical  Rajasthani fare , made with flour , lentils , ghee , spices  and jaggery .
A Baati is  a round  ball  of bread  made from either maize , millet  or wheat_flour , with generous  dollops  of ghee  and it is eaten  with a spicy  Dal.
The meal  is  rounded off  with choorma, a dessert  made by pounding  bread  with jaggery  or sugar  and ghee .
Tilonia is , a distant  village  in the district  of Ajmer, is  known  the world  over  for its Barefoot College , a project  dedicated  to sustainable  community  development .
Tilonia's artisans  create  traditional  handicrafts  with a contemporary  touch .
From camel  leather  Jooties through bags , low  chairs  with embroidered  backs  and three_legged  stools , quilts , you are  sure  to find  something  just  right  for you.
The art  of making  blue  glazed  pottery  came  to Rajasthan via Kashmir .
Made of crushed  quartz , fuller's_earth  and sodium_sulphate , and fired  in kilns  at very  high  temperature , Chinese  glazing  technology  is used  in conjunction  with Persian  decorative  arts .
Once  the mugs , vases , bowls , urns , doorknobs  and other  artifacts  are fired , they are hand  painted  in various  shades  of blue .
There's something  magical  about the Jaipuri Razai; it is  extremely  warm  despite being  unbelievably  light .
Carpet  and Dhurri weaving  is  an ancient  craft  that can be traced  back  to Afghanistan .
The best  Dhurries can be bought  in Bikaner, hand  knotted  carpets  in Jaipur and Namdahs in Tonk.
Aesthetically  molded  clay  pots  and pans  can be seen  in every  rural  household  in Rajasthan.
Over the years , potters  have moved  from making  utilitarian  products  to those with high  ornamental  value .
Molela near Udaipur is   known  for its wall  plaques , Pokhran for its tiny  terra_cotta  bells , Alwar for Kagzi (paper_thin ) pottery , and Bikaner for painted  pottery  tinted  with the red  of lac .
Jaipur and Udaipur are  famous  for the setting  of gems  in gold  by the age_old  technique  of Kundan.
In some of the most  exquisite  pieces  of Mughal and Rajput jewellery , it's impossible  to tell  the motifs  of one  from the other as the styles  have merged  completely .
From handcrafted  Jooties to saddles  and pouches , camel  hide  has been put  to several  uses  in Rajasthan.
Bikaner is  particularly  known  for its gesso  work , camel  hide  handicrafts  such as lampshades , traditional  flasks  and perfume  bottles .
The hide  is first  scraped  till it is  as thin  as paper , then  molded  and painted  in bright  colors  and gold , using  a special  technique .
When in  Jodhpur, don’t just  drool_over  the gorgeous  fabrics .
Spare  a moment  to appreciate  the age_old  Badalas (zinc  alloy  pitchers  used  to carry  water ) that were carried  on long  journeys  till their appearance  everywhere .
The old  city  is  a good  place  to buy  leather  goods , jewellery , and Jooties.
Visit  Jaipur's Gem Palace for the fabled  jewellery  worn  by Rajasthan's Maharajas  and princelings ; one should buy  the finest  attar  in tiny  glass  bottles  available  in Jodhpur's many  busy   bylanes .
Brilliantly  sequined  leather  Jooties are fashioned  from camel  hide , near Udaipur; and one of the favorite  places  to shop  in the capital  is  then  Anokhi, for beautiful  block  printed , vegetable  dyed  fabric .
Pichwais are  cloth  paintings , rich  in color  and detail , which are traditionally  used  as backdrops  for the Krishna  idol  at the Nathdwara Temple .
Modern_day  Pichwais tend  to use  a lot  of gold  and semi_precious  stones , and will be  a valuable  addition  to your art_collection .
Pushkar is  a great  place  to buy  all  things  antique   think  silver  jewellery , embroidered  fabrics , Angarakhas with genuine  gold  thread  embroidery , ornate  saddles  and more .
Everything here  seems  to belong  to another  age , but don’t forget  to haggle .
If you love  collecting  saris , you must buy  yourself several  from this artistically  rich  state .
Sanganeri block printed fabric  is  known  the world  over  for its quality , color  and design  and that pretty_much  makes  a Sanganeri (Jaipur and Sanganer) sari  irresistible .
Bagru (Jaipur and Bagru village ) saris , which use  only  natural ,  ecofriendly  colors .
There's the diaphanous  cotton  Kota Doriya, perfect  for summer .
Brightly  coloured  lac  bangles , hand_mirrors , pens , pillboxes  and incense  stands  are  a cheerful  and inexpensive  buy  in Rajasthan.
In the pink  city  of Jaipur, lac  trinkets  studded  with glass  gems  and metal  spirals  are  commonly  available .
Replicas  of antique  wood  furniture  are produced  in several  Rajasthani cities .
You can find  anything  from intricately  carved  doors  through windows , Jharokhas, and tabletops  to swings .
Jodhpur and Ramgarh in Shekhawati region  are  your best   bets .
You can source  painted  chairs  from Kishangarh and 
string bottom chairs  from Shekhawati.
You can't go  anywhere  in Rajasthan without encountering  someone  selling  puppets .
Most have  wooden  painted  in gaudy  fabric  and the best  places  to buy  puppets  are  near Hawa Mahal in Jaipur, so just  walk_around  till you find  one you like .
Zari is  gold , and Zardozi embroidery  is  the  glitteringly  ornate , heavily  encrusted  gold  thread  work  practiced  in Jaipur.
Either real  silver  thread , gold_plated  thread  or an imitation  that has  a copper  base  gilded  with gold  or silver  colour , is used  for Zari.
Traditionally  made  for  Moghul  and Rajput  nobility , it has now  been officially  adopted  as bridal  wear  by anyone who can afford  it.
Uttar_Pradesh  is  a unique  world  in itself.
Thanks  to its rich  culture , crafts  and cuisine , it is  one of the hottest  tourist  destinations  in India .
There is , of_course , the magnificent  Taj_Mahal  to be seen , but the state  is  also  famous  for its holy  shrines  and pilgrim  spot .
There are  rich  and tranquil  expanses  of meadows , perennial  rivers  and dense  forests  to be found  here .
Steeped  in history  and myth , Uttar_Pradesh  is  unparalleled .
For a taste  of the mighty  epics , plunge  into the Mahabharata  at Hastinapur, or visit  Ayodhya and Chitrakoot for a glimpse  into the Ramayana .
Come  to Mathura, where  Lord  Krishna  is believed  to have been born , or follow  the famous  Buddhist  trail  from Piprahwa to Kushinagar.
Make  a journey  for your soul  to one of the oldest  cities  of the world , the beautiful  and enchanting  Varanasi.
Head  to Vindhyachal mountains  and the vastly  scenic  Chunar and Sonbhadra, especially  in the monsoons  when the waterfalls  spring  to life .
Don't forget  to indulge  your tastebuds  in Lucknow , with its Nawabi cuisine  and delectable  Dum Pukht dishes  slow  cooked  to perfection .
Uttar_Pradesh  truly  is  a place  of  magic  and mystery , with its forts  and palaces , legends  and folklore , rich  heritage  and even  richer  cuisine .
We hope  you will enjoy  your stay  in Uttar_Pradesh .
Uttar_Pradesh  is  one  state  where I have truly  gone  berserk  over the food .
Uttar_Pradesh  is  one  place  to totally  indulge  yourself, especially  if you are looking  at tasting  something  different  from the usual  fare .
