The coastal  city  of Banten, 75  kilometers  west  of Jakarta  on the northern  coast  of Java , was  one of the Asia  largest  cosmopolitan  trading  harbors  in the 16 th  and the 17 th  century .
Ships  visited  its port  from Malacca, China , Vietnam , India , Arabia , Portugal  and Netherlands .
At its peak , it was  almost  as  important  as Amsterdam .
There are  still  old  buildings  left  which are  worth  a visit  for someone  who is  interested  in the history  of Indonesia  before and during the colonial  times .
Bengkulu is  the smallest  and the least  populated  province  of Sumatra .
Bengkulu province  is  located  on the southwest  coast  of Sumatra 
It occupies  of 19 ,831   sq.km  area  and has  about  one  million  population , comprising  mostly  Rejang, Malay , Bugis and Chinese  ethnic  ancestry  people .
Bukit Barisan mountain_range  constitutes  its northeastern  border , beyond which lies  the South  Sumatra  province  and the Jambi province .
Tigers  and elephants  wander  through the remains  of the original  rainforest , where exotic  rafflesia and orchids  grow .
The British  founded  Bengkulu in 1685 . 
It is  a university  town  and an administrative  centre .
It is  the last  territory  in Indonesia  to be held  by the British 
Fort  Marlborough, constructed  in 1762 , is  a castle  with gatehouse  that contains  old  gravestones  with English  inscription .
Sir_Thomas_Stamford_Raffles , who later  found  Singapore , was  the lieutenantgovernor  of Bengkulu from 1818  to 1823 .
Sir_Thomas_Stamford_Raffles  was  an important  figure  in Bengkulu history , who in 1817  was appointed  as the lieutenantgovernor  of Bencoolen, the only  territory  in the area , which the Dutch  never  managed  to bring  under their control .
Raffles  was  an extraordinary  and energetic  man  of wideranging  interests .
In the year  of his arrival , he and a botanist  named  Joseph Arnold discovered  the world  largest  flower , at Manna River  near Lubuktapi, in South  Bengkulu
The flower  is  now  known_as  Rafflesia Arnoldi and is  the official  symbol  of Bengkulu province .
Tabah Penanjung, an hour  's drive  into the hills  above Bengkulu is  a nature  reserve  where rafflesias are often  found . 
Mount  Bukit Kaba, near the hill  town  of Curup can be climbed  in a day  from Bengkulu.
Geographically , Bengkulu is  located  between 2 °  and 5 °  South  Latitude  and between 101 °  and 104 °  Eastern  Longitude . 
This province  is bordered  on the east  side  by the Jambi province  and on the west  side  by the Indian_Ocean , the south  side  by the Lampung province  and the Indian_Ocean  and the north  side  by the West  Sumatra  Province .
Bengkulu Province  is divided  among 1  municipality  and 3  districts , with Bengkulu as its capital  city .
Temperature  : Its humidity  is  87 % and the rainfall  ranges  3 ,598  mm  per year . 
The temperature  of this area  ranges  between 22 .2  degree_Centigrade  and 31 .1  degree_Centigrade .
Bengkulu province  has  an indigenous  community  consisting  of Manna, MukoMuko and Minang.
A transmigration program  supports  a migration  flow  to this province . 
The population  density  of this province  was  68  people  per  Km2  .
Compared  to the average  national  population  growth  amounted  to 2 .144 % per year ; this province  was  on the higher  level  with 3 .42 % per year  in the 1990 1994 .
Bengkulu province  is  located  on the southwest  coast  of Sumatra . 
It occupies   19 ,831   sq.km  area  and has  about  one  million  population , comprising  mostly  Rejang, Malay , Bugis and Chinese  ethnic  ancestry  people .
Bengkulu province  area  is  21 ,168   sq.km  widths. 
Bukit Barisan mountain_range  constitutes  its northeastern  border , beyond which lie  in South  Sumatra  and Jambi provinces .
Central  Java  Province , as one of Indonesia  's tourist  destination  areas , offers  various  kinds  of tourist  attractions  whether natural , cultural  or man_made  features .
Central  Java  is  located  exactly  in the middle  of the Java  Island .
It borders  with West  Java  Province  in the western  part , while the eastern  part  borders  with East  Java  Province .
Central  Java  is  the island  cultural , geographic  and historic  heartland . 
Universities , dance_schools , pottery , handicrafts , textiles  and carving , give  to the region  a rich  culture  and interesting  shopping .
This is  also  the place  of the famous  Javanese  temples  of Borobudur.
But it is  not  the only  ones  to be noted ; Dieng plateau  and Sukuh temple  are  worth  a visit . 
Performing_arts  is  still  widely  practised  and the traditional   dance dramas  (Wayang Orang) or  shadow puppets  (Wayang Kulit) performances  are  easy  to find .
Mountains  cross  the entire  central  portion  of the province . 
The cool  slopes  contain  numerous  hill  resorts  (Tawangmangu, Kaliurang, Sarangan).
The very  first  Moslem  kingdom  on the island  was founded  in 1511  at Demak, about  40  km  from Semarang .
Today  Demak is  a sleepy  little  town . 
However , its glory  of the past  is still  visible  from one of the major  relics , which is still  well preserved .
The Grand Mosque , a quaint  blend  of Hindu  and Islamic  architecture , still  honored  and worshipped  by the Javanese  pilgrims .
Surakarta, better  known_as  Solo, is  the cradle  of Javanese  culture  in the province .
The courts  of Solo embody  the noble  value that the Javanese  attach  to grace  and refinement , with majestic  ceremonies  and royal  festivals  still  held  with great  pomp  and circumstance .
Although no_longer  the seat  of power  it once  was , the descendants  of the royal_houses  of Solo are regarded  as leaders  of Javanese  culture  and traditions , upholding  standards  of sophistication  and conduct .
The rich  and fertile  plains  of the region  support  an enormous  population  of over 30  million  people .
The low_land  plains  are found  alongside  the northern  beaches .
The high_land  plains  are found  in the Center  of Central  Java  with mountains  stretching  lengthwise  from the west  to the east  with a line  of mountains , such as Mount  Slamet (3 ,428  m ), Mount  Perahu (2 ,585  m ), Mount  Sindoro (3 ,135  m ) Mount  Sumbing (3 ,321  m ), Mount  Merapi (3 ,142  m ) and  Mount  Ungaran (2 ,050  m ).
Near the border  with East  Java  Province  is  Mount  Lawu (3 ,265  m ), while on the northern  side  there is  Mount  Muria (1 ,602  m ).
At the feet  of these mountains  you will find  pleasant  and cool  highland  plains  with beautiful  panoramas  such as Baturaden, the Dieng Plateau , Bandungan, Kopeng, Tawangmangu, Solo, etc. . 
Apart from these mountains  there are  some  small  mountains  and lime  mountains .
The biggest  rivers  found  in Central  Java  are  Serayu river , with its source  in the Dieng plateau  and the "Bengawan Solo" river .
Central  Java  is  located  between 5 ° 40 ' and 8 °  30 ' South  Latitude  and between 108 ° 30 ' and 111 ° 30 ' East  Longitude .
A governor  as a high  rank  officer  heads  the Central  Java  province ; Central  Java  consists  of 35   regencies  and municipalities .
A Bupati (Regent ) heads  the  regency  and a municipality  is headed  by a Walikota (Mayor ).
The regencies and municipalities  are divided  into districts  headed  by Camat and the districts  are divided  into villages  headed  by Lurah or Kepala Desa.
The average  temperature  of this area  is  21  C   32  C  with the rainy_season  from October  to April  and the dry_season  from April  to October .
The freedom  to embrace  religion  is fully  guaranteed  by the government . 
Islam  has  the greatest  numbers  among the five  recognized  religions  (Islam , Protestant , Catholic , Buddhism  and Hinduism ).
Java language  with various  dialects  is  the daily  language  used  by most of Central  Java  people  but Bahasa_Indonesia  is  the mother_tongue .
The people  of Central  Java  will welcome  all of the tourists  in a hospitable  and friendly  manner .
The population  is  about  30 .7  million  (based  on the census  of 2002 ) or about  896  persons  per  square kilometer  with living  as farmers , traders  and government  officials .
Besides  the original  tribe , some  foreign  tribes  stay  here  such as Arabians , Chinese , Indians  and Pakistanis . 
"Kebaya" represents  the traditional  clothes  worn  by woman .
Jakarta  is  the capital  city  of the Republic_of_Indonesia , a country  composed  of 
more_than  13 ,000  islands  with a population  of over 180  million .
Comprising  more_than  300  ethnic_groups  speaking  200  different  languages , the Indonesian  population  exhibits  marked  diversity  in its linguistic , cultural  and religious  traditions .
As the capital  city , Jakarta  is  a melting_pot  of representatives  from each of these ethnic_groups .
Jakarta  is  a special  territory  enjoying  the status  of a province , consisting  of Greater  Jakarta , covering   637 .44   square km  area .
Located  on the northern  coast  of West  Java , it is  the center  of government , commerce  and industry  and has  an extensive  communications  network  with the rest  of the country  and the outside  world .
Strategically  positioned  in the archipelago , the city  is  also  the principal  gateway  to the rest  of Indonesia . 
From the Capital  City , sophisticated  land , air  and sea  transport  is  available  to the rest  of the country  and beyond .
Jakarta  is  one of Indonesia  designated  tourist  areas .
Jakarta  is  a gateway  to the other  tourist  destinations  in Indonesia  and is equipped  with all  the means  of modern  transportation  by air , sea , rail  or by land .
It has  the largest  and most  modern  airport  in the country , the most  important  harbor  in Indonesia  and is  well  connected  by rail  and good  roads  to the other  destinations  in Java , Sumatra  and Bali .
As Indonesia  main  gateway , SoekarnoHatta International  Airport  serves  a growing  number  of international  airlines  and domestic  flights .
Jakarta  is  a city  of contrasts ; the traditional  and the modern , the rich  and the poor , the sacral  and the worldly , often  stand  side_by_side  in this bustling  metropolis .
Even  its population , gathered  from all  those diverse  ethnic  and cultural  groups , which compose  Indonesia , are constantly  juxtaposed  and present  a reminder  of the national  motto ; Unity  in Diversity .
Finding  its origin  in the small  early  16 th  century  harbor  town  of Sunda Kelapa, Jakarta  founding  is thought  to have taken_place  on June  22 , 1527 , when it was renamed  Jayakarta, meaning  Glorious  Victory  by the conquering  Prince  Fatahillah from the neighboring  Cirebon.
The Dutch  East Indies Company , which captured  the town  and destroyed  it in 1619 , changed  its name  to Batavia and made  it the center  for the expansion  of their power  in the East_Indies .
Shortly  after the outbreak  of World_War_II , Batavia fell  into the hands  of the invading  Japanese  forces  that changed  the name  of the city  to 'Jakarta ' as a gesture  aimed  at winning  the sympathy  of the Indonesians .
Geographically , Jambi is  located  between 0 ° 45 '  2 ° 45 ' Northern  Latitude  and between 101 ° 10 '  104 ° 55 ' East  Longitude .
The name  was retained  after Indonesia  achieved  national  independence  after the war  end .
The ethnic  of Jakarta  called  "Orang Betawi" speaks  Betawi Malay , spoken  as_well  in the surrounding  towns  such as Bekasi and Tangerang.
Their language , Betawi Malay , has  two  variations : conventional  Betawi Malay , spoken  by the elder  people  and bred in Jakarta, and modern  Jakarta  Malay , a slang  form  spoken  by the younger  generation  and migrants .
Jakarta  architecture  reflects  to_a_great_extent  the influx  of outside  influences , which came  and has remained  in this vital  seaport  city .
Taman Fatahillah Restoration  Project , begun  in the early  1970 s has restored  one of the oldest  sections  of Jakarta  also  known_as  Old  Batavia to approximately  its original  state .
The Old  Portuguese  Church  and warehouse  have been rehabilitated  into living  museums . 
The old  Supreme  Court  building  is  now  a museum  of fine_arts , which also  houses  part  of the excellent  Chinese  porcelain  collection  of former  vice_president  Adam Malik.
The old  town_hall  has become  the Jakarta  Museum , displaying  such  rare  items  as Indonesia  old  historical  documents  and Dutch  period  furniture .
Its clock_tower  was once  returned  to England  to be repaired  under its lifetime  guarantee , which up to now  has already  lasted  hundreds  of years .
In recent  years , Jakarta  has expanded  its facilities  for visitors  with luxury  hotels , fine  restaurants , exciting  nightlife  and modern  shopping_centers .
It contains  many  tourist  attractions  such as Taman  Mini  Indonesia  Indah ("Beautiful  Indonesia  in Miniature  Park "), restored  colonial  period  buildings , island  resorts  in the Pula Seribu (Thousand  Island ) and an extensive  beach  recreation  complex  called  Ancol.
"Beautiful  Indonesia  in Miniature  Park " popularly  called  TMII "Taman  Mini  Indonesia  Indah", built  to portray  the variety  of cultures  found  within the many  islands  contained  in the Republic_of_Indonesia , this openair  museum  comprises  the many  architectural  forms  of arts  and traditions  of all  Indonesian  provinces .
The museum  is  a proof  of the country  motto  of Unity  in Diversity  as well as Freedom  of Religion  depicted  in the houses  of worship  built  on the grounds .
Jakarta  has preserved  its past  and is developing  for the future .
Skyscrapers  in the center  of the city  are  a part  of a new  look .
Modern  luxury  hotels  today  cater  to the discriminating  visitors . 
Transport  within the city  is  plentiful .
Jakarta  is  the center  of the nation  industrial , political  and cultural  life . 
It is  home  to many of the country  finest  research  institutes , educational  facilities  and cultural  organizations .
Jakarta  is  uniquely  the seat  of both  the national  as well as the regional  government .
Over the last  several  decades , Jakarta  has proudly  developed  into one of Asia  most  prominent  metropolitan  centers . 
Today , Jakarta  skyline  is covered  by modern  high_rises .
The many  stateoftheart  shopping_centers , recreation  complexes  and  tollroads 4447535  have become  hallmarks  of the city .
 :111 : The quality  of life  and the general  welfare  of its inhabitants  have improved  considerably  with the city  fast  pace  of development .
 :112 : Jakarta  cultural  richness  and dynamic  growth  contribute  significantly  to its growing  importance  as one of the world  leading  capital  cities .
 :113 : Jambi province  is  located  on the east  coast  of Central  Sumatra , faces  the Malaka straits , sharing  borders  with four  other  provinces  in Sumatra  and has  long  been  a melting_pot  for different  ethnic_groups .
 :114 : The earliest  inhabitants  were  the Kubus, who were  among the first  wave  of Malays  to migrate  to Sumatra .
 :115 : The ancient  kingdom  of Melayu developed  and grew  in Jambi and maintained  relations  with the mighty  kingdoms  of Sriwijaya, Majapahit and Singasari, but was eventually  attacked  and annexed  by Sriwijaya in the middle  of the 17 th  century .
 :116 : Encompassing  an area  of 53 ,435   sq km , almost  60 % of which is  forest , the province  is  home  to a large  variety  of fauna  and flora   and an exhilarating  place  for active  and adventurous  visitors .
 :117 : One of the greatest  kingdoms  in Indonesian  history , the Buddhist  Empire  of Sriwijaya, prospered  and grew  along the Musi River  bank  in South  Sumatra  over a thousand  years  ago .
 :118 : Located  in the southernmost  rim  of the 
South_China_Sea , close  to one of the world  busiest  shipping  lanes  linking  the_Far_East  with Europe , the region  historical  background  is  rich  and colorful .
 :119 : Sriwijaya Kingdom  practiced  a bustling  and lucrative  trade  with ancient  China  in its era  of powerful  dynasties  and in 672 ,the Chinese  scholar  Tsing recorded  that a thousand  monks  and scholars  could be seen  translating  and studying  Sanskrit  in what has now  become  a regional  capital  of Palembang.
 :120 : However , few  relics  of this memorable  era  remain .
 :121 : Stretching  from the foothills  of the mighty  Bukit Barisan mountain_range  in the West  Sumatra  to Bangka and Belitung Island  in the East , South  Sumatra  province  is  relatively  flat  but very  fertile , with numerous  rivers  cutting_across  the landscape  and meandering  their way  to the sea .
 :122 : Coffee  and tea  are grown  in plantations  in various  parts  of the province  but the area  enormous  wealth  comes  from oil ,_natural_gas , coal , tin  and quartz .
 :123 : Palembang is  still  the gateway  to the province  and together  with Pangkal Pinang on Bangka Island  and Tanjung Pandan on Belitung, provides  the region  with three  major  airports .
 :124 : All  three  cities  have  direct  connections  with Medan, Batam, Padang and Jakarta  and the future  will see  the introduction  of flights  to Singapore .
 :125 : Airconditioned  buses  from the north  and the west  points  of Palembang are  also  regularly  available , as well as to the major  cities  in Java  and Bali .
