Geographically , Jambi is  located  between 0 ° 45 '  2 °45 ' Northern  Latitude  and between 101 ° 10 '  104 ° 55 ' East  Longitude .
Jambi Province  is  divided  among 5   regencies  and 1  municipality , with an area  of 44 ,800   sq km .
Jambi: Humidity  is  about  83 %. 
The rainfall  ranges  about 1 ,940   2 ,941  mm  per year . 
The temperature  ranges  between 22 .5  C and 33 .6  C .
A migration  flow  to this province  is supported  by the existence  of heavy  plantation   exertion  and  transmigration  program .
In 1994 , the total  population  was  214 ,507  people , with an average  density  of 40 .1  people  per  Km2  .
Compared  to the average  population  growth  amounting  to 2 .144 % per year , this province  is  on the lower  level  with 1 .21 % per year  during the 1990 1994  period .
Lampung province  is  located  at the extreme  south  of Sumatra  and is overlooked  and over_flown  by most  tourists .
In the past  it was  well_known  for its marvelous  'tapi' fabrics , some using  real  gold  thread , and for its pepper . 
But today , it is  the location  for ambitious   transmigration  projects , resettling  farmers  from overpopulated  Java .
Lampung boasts  of volcanoes , wildlife  reserve , megalithic  remains  and a superb  coastline  of deep cut  bays  and wonderful  beaches .
Lampung's capital  is  Bandar Lampung: it  is made_up  of twin  cities , that is  Teluk Betung and Tanjung Karang.
Way Kambas Nature  Reserve  is  a 130 ,000  ha area  of swamp  and lowland  forest  with wild  elephant , tapir  and many  other  animals .
The name  of Lampung province  was taken  from original  Lampungnese.
Before Indonesia  became  an independent  country , a  resident  led  Lampung region  and the status  was  as  residency  area  (Residentie lampungche districten) with many  afdeling  (afdeling Teloek betoeng, afdeling metro and afdeling kotabumi).
The villages /old  towns  with traditional  living  characteristic  could be found  like Sukadana, Menggala, Kenali, Liwa, Blambangan Umpu, etc. . 
A part  of these towns  became  the capital  of district .
In the first  of 2000  7  million  was   the population  of Lampung Province . 
Among 10  districts  / towns , the most  population  was  in central  Lampung with 1 .901 .630  and the  population  density  in Bandar Lampung city  was   3 .763  souls / km2  .
Lampung province  is  located  between 3 ° 45 ' and 6 ° 45 ' South  Latitude  and between 103 ° 40 ' and 105 ° 50 ' East  Longitude .
The wide  area  of Lampung province  is  33 ,307   sq km , while Lampung Province  is  divided  among 4   regencies , 1  municipality  and 1  administrative  town  with Bandar Lampung as its capital  city .
The humidity  of this province  varies  between 50 % and 86 %, and the rainfall   ranges  between 2 ,000  and 4 ,000  mm  per year . 
The temperature  ranges  between 20 ° C_ and 34 ° C .
The migration  flow  to Lampung province  is supported  by the existence  of heavy  plantation , fishery  and industry .
In 1994 , the total  population  of Lampung province  was  6 ,200 ,306  people , with its average  density  of 196 .8  people  per  Km2  . 
Compared  to the average  national  population  growth  amounting  to 2 .144 % per year , this province  was  on the lower  level  with 2 .12 % per year  during the 1990 1994  period .
Lampung society  consists  of two  main  groups , consequently  it has  special  traditional  law . 
They are  Peminggir traditional  society  and Pepadun traditional  society .
Peminggir societies , such as, Krui, Ranau, Komering, and Kayu Agung society , live  along the coast  and the  Pepadun society , who are  customarily  conservative , such as, Abung (Abung Siwo Migo), Pubian (Pubian Telu Suku), Tulang Bawang (Migo Pak), Buai Lima (Way Kanan), and Sungkay Bunga Mayang, live  in the inland .
North  Sumatra  is  one of Indonesia  last  surfing  frontiers . 
North  Sumatra  consists  of 5  islands  or island  groups , Hinako Islands , Nias, Telos and 2  other  obscure  island  groups  to the north .
North  Sumatra  receives  swell  similar  to Mentawais and enjoys  its peak  swell  season  from May  to September .
Despite Indonesia  reputation  for lefts, in North  Sumatra   righthanders  are  slightly  more  prevalent .
While Lagundri Bay  at Nias has been surfed  for decades , it is  the more  obscure  rights  like Bawa (a Sunset like  right  bowl  that holds  upto 15  feet ) and Treasure Island  (a long , hollow , mechanical  right peeling for 200  meters ) that have attracted  attention  of_late .
Throw  a mix  of hollow  and bowl   lefthanders  into the picture  like Asu, Afulu, The Machine, and many  more  obscure  rights and lefts.
In contrast  to the small  island  of Bali , North  Sumatra  province  is  large  with one of the biggest  lakes  in the world , Toba Lake , at its navel .
The continuous  mountain  of Bukit Barisan, which extends  from Aceh at the tip  of Sumatra  island  to Lampung at the bottom  of the island , guards  the province  on the west  side , providing  home  for thick  tropical  jungles  and lush  vegetations .
As you go  down the western  mountains  towards the beaches  of the east , mountain  streams , strong  rivers , and gorgeous  waterfalls  will accompany  you.
Along the length  of this province  crosses  Bukit Barisan Mountains  with peaks  of numerous  volcanoes .
The land  has  thick  virgin  forests , lush  vegetation , rice  fields , mountain  streams , rivers , waterfalls  and sandy  beaches .
It has  a rich  flora  and fauna  with an abundance  of birds , butterflies , buffaloes , deer , mouse_deer , orangutans  and many  other  export  commodities  make  North  Sumatra  one of the richest  provinces  in Indonesia , as it produces  more_than  30  % of Indonesia  exports .
The province  offers  the visitors , especially  nature  lovers , beautiful  tropical  panoramas , terraced  rice  fields , blue  mountains , jungle  covered  hills , white  sandy  beaches , music , dance  and folk_arts .
Relative  to Bali , North  Sumatra  has  very  heterogeneous  ethnic  groups , and thus , cultures . 
The people  of the eastern  coasts , also  known_as  the Malays  (Melayu) have  markedly  different  traditions  and culture  from Batak  highlanders  who live  around Toba Lake  and Samosir Island .
Further  south , the Mandailings and Angkolas, and Nias Island , have  yet  more  flavors  of traditions  and culture . 
Besides  them, there are  several  ethnic  groups  who live  in Medan  and other  towns  of North  Sumatra .
Its largest  groups  are  Chinese  and Indians , who are  naturalized  Indonesian  citizens . 
Other  Indonesian  tribes  like Acehnese, Minangkabau, Javanese, etc.  also  live  in many  parts  here .
Each of the mentioned  tribes  as well as the ethnic  groups  has  its own  dialect , religion , beliefs , traditional  customs , etc. . 
 Arts  and cultures  make  this region , a paradise  for social_scientists .
Among the ancient  Indonesian  cultures , which can be seen  at Samosir Island , are  the centuries old  tombs  of Batak Toba kings  and a stone  table  with its benches , where the Siallagan chiefs  formerly  held  meetings .
North  Sumatra  province  has  70 ,787   sq km  width . 
Geographically , it is  located  between 1 ° and 4 ° North  Latitude  and between 98 ° and 100 ° East  Longitude .
North  Sumatra  Province  is  divided  among 11   regencies , 6  municipalities , and 3  administrative  towns  with Medan  as its capital  city .
It is  composed  of coastal  areas , lowlands , plateaus  and mountains . 
Humidity : Varies  between 79 % and 96 %.
Climate : As one of Indonesia  islands , North  Sumatra  has  rainfall  of 1 ,100 3 ,400  mm  per year . 
Its temperature  ranges  between 18  1  °C  and 34  °C .
Historically , North  Sumatra  Province  has  a migration  flow  of population  either from other  provinces  because of the existence  of heavy  plantation  in this province  or migration  to other  areas  for studying  and expanding  business .
Since population  mobility  is  high , there are  multiple  ethnicities  in the community .
In 1994 , the population  density  of North  Sumatra  Province  reached  157  people  per  Km2  .
Compared  to the average  national  population  growth  (2 .144 % per year ), this province  was on a lower  level  with 1 .53 % per year .
Waters  of Riau archipelago  are  the  backyards  of native  seafaring  nomads  who fish  and trade  for a living .
Riau's traditional  wooden  sailing  craft , called  'pinisi' still  do  the forested  channels  of these islands , along with other  indigenous  craft , fishing_vessels  and cargo_ships  which call  at the archipelago  main  town  and Tanjung Pinang port .
Tanjung Pinang lies  on the largest  island  of Bintan archipelago . 
Today , Bintan is  the latest  hot  spot  of development  in Indonesia  surging  economy .
Barely  an hour  away  from Singapore  by ferry , tourist  accommodation  has begun  to appear  to take  advantage  of Tanjung Pinang's  getawayfromitall  appeal 
Originally  part  of Riau Province , Riau Archipelago  was split  off  as a separate  Province  in July  2004  with Tanjung Pinang as its capital .
Anambas Archipelago , located  between mainland  Malaysia  and Borneo  were attached  to the new  province  named  as Riau Archipelago .
By population , the most  important  Riau islands  are  Bintan, Batam and Karimun.
Sizewise, however , the sparsely  populated  Natuna Islands  are  larger .
Riau Archipelago  with its thousands  of islands  has  plenty  of scenic  beaches  and diving  spots , among them are  Trikora on Bintan and Pasir Panjang on Rupat Island .
Pasir Panjang, is  on the northern  side  of Rupat, facing   Malacca Strait : its stretched_out  natural  beaches  are  also  found  on Terkulai and Soreh islands , about  an hour  distance  by boat  from Tanjung Pinang.
One of the most  popular  beaches  is  Nongsa on Batam Island 
From here  one can see  the Singapore  skyline .
West  Kalimantan  is  one of the Indonesian  Provinces , which has coped  with keeping  buildings  within reach  of the aspiration  and for the sake  of prosperity  of it public .
The region  unfolds  from north  straight  to the south , along the length  of more_than  600  km  and about  850  km  from west  to east , broadly  146807  km (7 .53  percentage  of Indonesia  area  or 1 .13 % of the area  of Java  island ) and becomes  the fourth  widest  Province  after Irian, East  Kalimantan  and Central  Kalimantan .
West  Kalimantan  area , as one  area , is  commonly  called  as "A Thousand  Rivers  Province ".
The nickname , A Thousand  River  Province , is  suitable  with its geographical  condition , which has  hundreds  of great  and small  rivers  and is often  navigated .
Some  great  rivers  are still  the main  line  for hinterland  transportation , although land  road  infrastructure  has been able  to reach  most of the districts , although only  a little  of West  Kalimanatan regions  are  water  territory  going  into the sea : however , West  Kalimanatan has  tens  of big  and small  islands  (partly  uninhabited ), which spread  along the length  of Karimata Strait  and Natuna Sea  that abuts  the Riau Province  region  of  Sumatra .
West  Kalimantan residents  embrace  various  religions , like Islam , Catholicism , Protestantism , Buddhism , Hinduism  and believe  in following  one  supreme  God .
Most of West  Kalimantan residents  work  in agricultural  sector , plantation , fishery  and commerce .
West  Kalimantan Province  was formed  based  on the constitution  Number  25  in 1956 , which determined  the West  Kalimantan region  as an autonomous  area  province  with its capital  in Pontianak and because the constitution  was applied  on 1  January , 1957 , hence  the West  Kalimantan Province  anniversary  is commemorated  on that date .
Of the 17 ,000  islands  that make_up  the archipelago  of the Republic_of_Indonesia , Java  has historically  been considered  the heartland .
Where Java  has led , culturally , economically  and politically  down through the centuries , other  regions  have followed .
On Java , still  the most  densely  populated  island  of Indonesia , there are  five  Provinces . 
West  Java  is  the largest , with the greatest  population , and, some would claim , with the most  pride .
West  Java  Province  is  located  in  a part  of western  Java  Island .
The enchanting  Sunda land  stretches  from Sunda Strait  in the west  to the borders  of Central  Java  in the east .
The West  Java  region  is  primarily  mountainous , with rich  green  valleys  hugging  lofty  volcanic  peaks , many of which surround  the capital  of West  Java  province .
The history  of West  Java  is  a story  of trade , spices , and the rise  and fall  of powerful  kingdoms .
In the late  1500 's the West  Java  region  was ruled  from mighty  Cirebon, which still  survives  as a sultanate  today , although a  shadow  of its former  glory . 
West  Java  was  one of the first  contact  points  in Indonesia  for Indian  traders  and their cultural  influences , and it was  here  that the Dutch  and British  first  set  foot  in the archipelago .
West  Java  province  has  its own  unique  culture  and language , both  called  Sundanese, a term  that is also  used  to call  its people .
The ancient  kingdoms  of Tarumanegara, Pajajaran, Banten and Cirebon would make  interesting  studies  for the student  of archaeology .
Cirebon is  located  on the border  between West  and Central  Java , having  a mixed  culture  originating  from the ancient  Cirebon and Banten kingdoms , resulting  in similar  customs  and dialects  of the two  people , although Banten is  located  at the extreme  western  part  of the province .
West  Java  province  itself, is formed  based  on the Constitution  number  11 /1950  on the establishment  of West  Java .
With the issuance  of Constitution  number  23 /2000  on Banten Province , West  Java  Governor  Assisting  Territory  I  Banten was inaugurated  as Banten Province  with its territories  comprising  Serang  Regency , Pandeglang  Regency , Lebak  Regency , Tangerang  Regency  and  Mayoralty , and Cilegon  Mayoralty .
After  the change , at_present  West  Java  consists  of 18   regencies , nine   mayoralties , 584  districts , 5 ,201  villages  and 609   subdistricts .
The capital  city  of West  Java  province  is  Bandung  city  which is  situated  180  km  southeast  of Jakarta . 
The city  gained  fame  in 1955  as the venue  for the first  AfroAsian  Conference , which brought_together  the leaders  of 29  Asian  and African  nations  with the aim  to promote  economic  and cultural  relations  and take  a common  stand  against colonialism .
The road  from Jakarta  to Bandung  passes_through  a beautiful  panorama  of mountains , paddy_fields  and small  holiday_resorts .
An expressway  connects  the crowded  capital  city  with Bogor and the mountain  areas , and onward to Bandung .
Bandung  has  a number  of sea  resorts  on its western  and southern  coasts , which have  modern  hotels  and are  popular  during the weekends .
The Sundanese people  are  softspoken  while the women  of the Bandung  region  are  known  for their beauty .
A lighthearted  people  who have  a love  for bright  colors , their mournful  "kecapi" music  is  a memory  of beautiful  legends .
 :108 : West  Sumatra  is  one of the most  beautiful  areas  of Indonesia .
 :109 : West  Sumatra  is  mountainous  and divided  by three  valleys  with lovely  lakes  and spectacular  volcanoes .
 :110 : But Minangkabau land  is  very  special  and has  the most  friendly  population  group  of Indonesia .
 :111 : People  love  to talk  with visitors  and will tell  us about their unique  society . 
 :112 : If a visitor  tries  to understand  the culture  and Minang traditions  he will soon  feel  himself a member  of the clan .
 :113 : He will be invited  as a guest  to their homes   a unique  way  to become  acquainted  with real  Indonesian  life .
 :114 : Most of your hosts  and hostesses  in West  Sumatra  are  English  teachers  so language  will not  be  much of a problem . 
 :115 : They will show  you the community  and explain  their customs . 
 :116 : The land  of the Minangkabau, West  Sumatra  has  a distinct  culture , which distinguishes  it from the rest  of the island .
 :117 : A land  of scenic  beauty  with blue  green  lakes  and mountains , West  Sumatra  Centre  of culture  and tourism  is  Bukittinggi in the highlands , north  of the provincial  capital  of Padang.
 :118 : Most  prominent  in the landscape  is  the hornshaped  roofs  of the houses  nestled  in the 
coconut  groves .
 :119 : The name  Minangkabau means  triumphant  buffalo  which leads  a community  and family  life  based  on a matrilineal  system , which clusters  around mosques  and the traditional  houses .
As it is the women  who have  the properties , the men  are  known  for their wanderlust  and  entrepreneurship .
 :121 : Traveling  is considered  a mark  of success  and therefore  many of them are found  "merantau" (emigrated ) to other  parts  of the country .
 :122 : This is  proof  that many  Minang or Padang restaurants , serve  very  spicy  food , found  in all  major  towns  in the nation .
 :123 : The people  are  hospitable  and eloquent  in a poetic  style  of speech  and ceremonies , festivals  are  colorful  occasions .
 :124 : West  Sumatra  province  has  about  49 ,778   sq km  width , which is  located  between 0 ° 54 ' North  Latitude  and 3 ° 30 ' South  Latitude  and between 98 ° 36 ' and 101 ° 53 ' East  Longitude 
 :125 : The West  Sumatran  coastline  faces  the 
Indian_Ocean  and stretches  375  km  from North  Sumatra  province  in the northwest  to Bengkulu in the southeast .
