The foreign  currency  exchange  counters  of different  banks  are also  opened  at different  places  in the city . 
Foreign  currencies  must be exchanged  only  through the banks  or authorized  foreign  exchange  bureaus .
The rate_of_exchange  of the foreign  currencies  are determined  by the Nepal Rastra Bank  and are announced  in the press  daily  also . 
The bank  receipts  are required  for  reexchanging  of currency  note  that Nepal  currency  is  not  applicable  in India .
In Nepal  banks  are  open  between 10 :00  A.M.  to 2 :30  P._M.  from Sunday  to Thursday  and between 10 :00  A.M.  to 2 :30  P._M.  on Fridays  while they are  closed  on Saturdays  and other  holidays .
The duty  on articles  brought  by the visitor  varies  according  to the volume  and value  of the goods .
A tourist  may bring  in dutiable  goods , such as tobacco  and liquors , within the prescribed  quantity  free  of duty . 
Carrying  narcotic , arms , ammunition  are  strictly  prohibited .
Any foreigner  intending  to trek  in any  part  of the kingdom  of Nepal  shall have to obtain  a trekking  permit  from the Department  of Immigration , Tridevi Marg and permits  are issued  for trekking  in any  part  of the country  except in areas  restricted  for the foreigners  by government  regulation .
Nepal  time  is  5  hours  45  minutes  ahead of GMT  and 15  minutes  ahead of Indian  Standard_Time .
His Majesty's the Government  of Nepal , Department  of Tourism  runs  information  centres  at its office  and at the following  places : Tourist  Information  Centre , Tribhuvan International  Airport , Kathmandu ; Tourist  Information  Centre , Basantapur, Kathmandu ; Tourist  Office , Airport , Pokhara; Tourist  Information  Centre , Birgunj; Tourist  Information  Centre , Bhairahawa; Tourist  Information  Centre , Kakarbhitta; Tourist  Information  Centre , Janakpur.
There is  a special  provision  of Tourist  Police  Unit  to deal  with the problems  of tourists : for assistance  one can contact  the Department  of Tourism , Bhrikutimandap, for the services  of tourist  police 
Passengers  arriving  at Tribhuvan International  Airport  (TIA) without any  dutiable  goods  can proceed  through the Green  Channel  for quick  clearance  without a baggage  check .
If you are carrying  dutiable  articles , you have to 
pass_through  the Red  Channel  for detailed  customs  clearance .
Apart from used  personal  belongings , visitors  are allowed  to bring  to Nepal , free  of duty , cigarettes  (200 ) or cigars  (50 ), distilled  liquor  (one  1 .15  liter  bottle ) and film  ( 15  rolls ).
You can also  bring  in the following  articles  free  of duty  on the condition  that you take  them out  with you when you leave : binoculars , movie  or video  camera , still  camera , laptop_computer  and portable  music  system .
It is  illegal  to export  objects  over 100  years  old  (sacred  images , paintings , manuscripts ) that are valued  for cultural  and religious  reasons .
Visitors  are advised  not  to purchase  such  items  as they are  Nepal  cultural  heritage  and belong  here .
The Department  of Archaeology  at Ramshah Path near Singha Durbar has to certify  all  metal  statues , sacred  paintings  and similar  objects  before they are allowed  to be sent  or carried  out  of the country .
Muzaffarabad: The capital  of the  Azad Jammu & Kashmir  is  situated  at the confluence  of the Jhelum & Neelum rivers .
The present  name  of Muzaffarabad has been given  to it after the name  of Sultan  Muzaffar Khan, a chief  of Bomba Dynasty  (1652 ).
There are  two  forts , namely , Red  & Black  Forts , situated  on the opposite  sides  of the river  Neelum.
The Neelum river  streams  through the town , joins  river  Jhelum at Domel and plays  a dominant  role  in the  micro climate  of Muzaffarabad.
Places  of interest  in and around Muzaffarabad are  Pir Channasi, Shaheed Gali and Patika.
Balochistan is  the largest  province  of Pakistan , which makes  44 % of the country  land_mass  and it traces  its history  from 
times_immemorial  when it was inhabited  by Stone_Age  hunters .
According  to the French  Archaeologist , Professor  Jarrige, by 6 ,000  BC  farmers  on the Bolan river  were cultivating  barley , wheat  and dates  using  flood  water  and storing  their surplus  in large  mud  bins 
The people  here  were growing  cotton  and making  pottery .
Before the birth  of Christ , Balochistan had commerce  and trade  links  with ancient  civilization  of Babylon  through Iran  and into the valleys  of the Tigris  and the Euphrates .
Alexander_the_Great  (326  BC ) had  an encounter  with the Sibia tribe  of Balochistan.
Muhammad Bin Qasim (711  AD ) and Mehmood Ghaznavi (11 th  century  AD ) also  invaded  Balochistan resulting  in the development of Muslim  character .
Even  today  most  tribal  people  of Balochistan province  resemble  Arabs  and the inhabitants  can be  quite  a fascinating  subject  of study  by anthropologists .
From the mighty  stretches  of the Karakorams  in the North  to the vast  alluvial  delta  of the Indus_River  in the South , Pakistan  remains  a land  of high  adventure  and nature .
Trekking , mountaineering , white_water  rafting , wild_boar  hunting , mountain  and desert  jeep  safaris , camel  and yak  safaris , trout  fishing  and bird  watching  are  a few  activities , which entice  the adventure  and nature  lovers  to Pakistan .
High  Himalayas , Karakoram  and the Hindu_Kush  ranges  with their alpine  meadows  and permanent  snow_line , coniferous  forests  down the  submountain  scrub , the vast  Indus  plain  merging  into the great  desert , the 
coast_line  and wetlands , all offer  a remarkably  rich  variety  of vegetation  and associated  wildlife  including avifauna , both endemic  and migratory .
Ten  of the 18  mammalian  orders  are represented  in Pakistan  with species  ranging  from the world  smallest  surviving  mammal , the Mediterranean  Pigmy  Shrew , to the largest  mammal  ever  known , the blue_whale .
Northern  areas  of Pakistan , spread  over 72 ,496   sq.km.  are  as  fascinating  as its southern  region .
Amidst towering  snowclad  peaks  with heights  varying  from 1000  m  to over 8000  meter , the valleys  of Gilgit, Hunza and Skardu recall  ShangriLa .
The people  with typical  costumes , folk_dances , music  and sports  like polo  and buzkashi provide  the traveler  an unforgettable  experience .
Nowhere  in the world  there is  such  a great  concentration  of high  mountains , peaks , glaciers  and passes  except Pakistan .
Of the 14  over 8000  m  peaks  on earth , 4  occupy  an amphitheater  at the head  of Baltoro glacier  in the Karakoram_range .
 
These are : K2  (8611  m , world  second  highest ), Broad Peak  (8047 m ), Gasherbrum I (8068 m ) and Gasherbrum II (8035 m ).
The Northern  Pakistan  has  some of the longest  glaciers  outside the polar_region ; Siachen (72  km ), Hispar (61  km .), Biafo (60  km .), Baltoro (60  km .), Batura (64  km .), Yenguta (35  km .), Chiantar (34  km .), Trich (29  km .) and Atrak (28  km .).
The lower  Himalayan  valleys  of Swat, Kaghan and Chitral in the Hindukush range  equally  share  the beauty  and diverse  culture  of  northern  Pakistan .
The northern  area  of Pakistan  is  a place  where the world  three  famous  
mountain_ranges  meet   the Himalayas , the Karakorams  and the Hindu_Kush .
The whole  northern  Pakistan  has come  to be  known_as  a paradise  for mountaineers , climbers , trekkers , hikers  and anglers  of the most  famous  “Trout  fish ”.
In the northern  regions  of Pakistan , at a 
stone's_throw  from the Amu Darya, is ” BameDuniya” (the roof  of the world ).
 This name  was given  to the great  Pamir plateau , an apex  of six  of the mightiest  mountain_ranges  of the world .
The historic  Karakoram pass , 5 ,575  metres , an ancient  trading  route  between Kashmir and Xinjiang , gives  its name  to the range  west  of it that forms  the watershed  between the Indus  and the Central  Asian  deserts .
The eastern  boundary  of the Karakoram  is  the upper  Shyok River  from where it extends  over 322  km  westwards  to the Karumbar river  and the Hindukush range .
The Nanga_Parbat , a  8 ,126  metres  massif , is  the western  anchor of the great  Himalayan  range  which stretches  in an arc  24 ,124  km  east  to Burma , a boundary  and barrier , "the razor_edge " which for centuries  has determined  the destiny  of the Indian  subcontinent .
Such is  the setting  of the Karakoram_range , this remnant  of a primeval  ice_age , "the third  pole," with extensive  glacier  systems  and the greatest  concentration  of lofty  mountains  in the world .
Some of the largest  glaciers  outside the  subpolar  regions  flow  in the Karakorams .
For its sheer  mountain  grandeur  and breathtaking  panorama  of beauty , few  places  can match  the superb  landscape  through which the Karakoram Highway  snakes .
A fantastic  and unforgettable  spectacle  is  the passage  of the highway  along the Baltura glacier , rated  among the world  's seventh  largest .
The Khunjerab Pass , which the Highway  crosses , and the nearby  Mintaka Pass  lie  astride  the fabulous  ancient  Silk_Road  that led  from Europe  to Asia  and over which history  most  famous  tourists  once  travelled .
These include  the Venetian  trader  Marco_Polo  after whom has been named  the wild  
Marco_Polo_sheep  in the thirteenth  century , the Chinese  monk  Fa Hien in the fourth  century  and the Arab  historian , AlBeruni in the eleventh  century .
The Siachin glacier  is  75  km , the Hispar, (52  km ) joins  the Biafo at the Hispar La, 5 ,154  metres , to form  an ice  corridor , 116  km . long .
The Baltoro (62  km ), a mighty  glacier  fed  by some  30  tributaries  constitutes  a surface_area  of 1 ,219   sq. km. . 
Of the fourteen  over 8 ,000  m  peaks  on earth , four  occupy  an amphitheatre  at the head  of Baltoro.
There are  K2  (8 ,611  m  ), second  only  to Everest , Broad Peak  (8 ,047  metres ) Gasherbrum I (8 ,068  metres ), Gasherbrum II (8 ,035  metres ).
Seen  from a distance , the Baltoro appears  smooth  and beautiful  but in_fact  it is  a chaotic  tumbling  mass  of rock  and ice , troughs  and hillocks  and the debris  of centuries .
In the Lesser  Karakorams  there are  equally  great  peaks  such as Rakaposhi  (7 ,788  metres ), the dominant  giant  in Hunza valley .
There are  scores  of over 7 ,000  m  peaks  in the Karakoram_Range  and hundreds  of nameless  summits  below 6 ,000  metres , mere  points  on the map .
The shapes , forms , sizes , colours  provide  tremendous  contrast , which defy  description . 
K2 , the undisputed  monarch  of the sky , Broad Peak , massive  and ugly , Muztagh  Tower , deceptively  sheer .
Gasherbrum II, the "Egyptian Pyramid" that even  Cheops  would have preferred  for a tomb , Chogolisa, the "Bride Peak ", in whose eternal  embrace  lies  Hermann Buhi, the first  man  to climb  Nanga_Parbat .
The Cathedrals of the Baltoro with their great  knifeedge  ridges , the sky  cleaving  monoliths  of the Trango Towers and the most  beautiful  of all  the Peak of Perfection  Paiyu, (6 ,600  metres ) first  climbed  by a Pakistani  expedition  in 1977 .
The Hindu_Kush  is  also  a mountain  vastness containing  hundreds  of peaks , many above 7 ,000  metres  including  Trichmir, 7 ,705  metreS , that is  the highest  point  of the range 
The world  largest  earth filled  dam  on one of the world  most  important  rivers   the Indus   is  103  km  from Islamabad .
Tarbela Dam , Swabi, is  the biggest  hydel 
power_station  in Pakistan  having  a capacity  of generating  3 ,478  megawatts  of electricity .
Dam ’s reservoir  is  97  km  long  with a depth  of 137  meters  while the total  area  of the lake  is  260   sq.km . 
With a reservoir  capacity  of 13 ,690 ,000 ,000   cubic m , the dam  is  143  m  high  and 2 ,743  m  wide  at its crest .
Permits  are required  to visit  the dam . Please  contact  the Public_Relations  Officer  (PRO), Water  and  Power  Development  Authority  (WAPDA), Tarbela (Tel: 0995 660562 ) or Member  ( Power ) WAPDA House , ShahraheQuaideAzam, Lahore  
For centuries , the Silk_Road  remained  the main  trading  route  between South  Asia  and Central  Asia .
After the construction  of the Karakoram Highway  (KKH) in 1982  along the same  alignment , joining  Pakistan  with the Chinese  Muslim  autonomous  region  of Xinjiang , the ancient  trade  link  has been revived .
The KKH has provided  a great  opportunity  for international  travellers  to explore  the  unspoilt  natural  beauty , unique  culture  and ancient  traditions  of the Northern  Pakistan  together  with the other  Silk_Road  countries  like China , Kirgizstan , Tajikistan , Kazakhstan  and Uzbekistan .
Karakoram means  black  mountain  in Turkish ; this splendid  magnificent  collection  of dark_brown  and black  metamorphic  rocks  is  the most  unique  mountain_range .
Karakoram  has  the largest  concentration  of lofty  pinnacles  and mountains  in the world , stretching  for 400  kms  with 250  kms  depth .
 83 : Karakoram  is bounded  by the Shyok river  in the east  and Karamber, Ishkuman and Gilgit rivers  in the west , in the northeast  it is bounded  by Shaksgam river  and in the southwest  by the Shyok and the Indus  rivers .
Karakoram  is specially  characterized  by its fissured  rocks , gendarme  like  vertical  features  and steep  slopes  presenting  a great  challenge  to climbers  and adventure  seekers .
Four  peaks  above eight  thousand  meters  i.e. , K2 , Gasherbrum 1  & 2  and Broad Peak  are  situated  in the Karakoram  in a radius  of just  twenty  kms  around a famous  glacial  junction  called  Concordia.
The  sub regions  of the Karakoram  are  Baltoro, Soltoro, Hispar, Lupghar, Khunjerab, Panmah, Aghilm, Masherbrum, Saser, Siachen, Rimo, Batura, Rakaposhi /Bogrot and Haramosh.
The snow_line  in the Karakoram_range  varies  between 4200  to 4500  meters  during the summers .
The temperatures  in the area  are  extreme  and there is  a large  difference  between the lowest  and the highest  temperatures  during a day  and monsoons  do not  penetrate  this area .
Most  suitable  climbing  season  in Karakoram  is  from the month  of May  till the end  of September  each  year .
Climbing  during winters  is , however , possible : besides  high  mountains , Karakoram  is inhabited  by the largest  glaciers  outside the polar_region .
The Chinese  were  the earliest  known  travelers  on the famous  Silk_Road  which passed_through  these magnificent  ranges  and recorded  their impressions  of dark  mountains , rope_bridges  and mighty  glaciers .
At 8700  feet  above sea_level , Malam Jabba Ski_Resort  stands  on top  of a mountain  of the Hindu_Kush  range , north_east  of Saidu Sharif.
Surrounded  by the mighty  Karakorams  and stunning  black  mountains , Malam Jabba is  more_that  just  a ski_resort . 
It is  a holiday_resort  that caters  to all  interests  and is  also  home  to the remains  of ancient  civilizations .
Situated  on one of the important  offshoots  of the Karakoram Highway , Malam Jabba is  314  km  from Islamabad  and 51  km  from Saidu Sharif Airport  on Saidu SharifKalam Road . 
The road  diverts  right  from Manglor to Malam Jabba.
Mighty  ranges  of the Hindu_Kush , the Karakoram  and Black  Mountains , gentle  slopes , placid  plains , torrential  streams   Malam Jabba offers  unlimited  sights  to behold .
The summer  temperatures  of 10 °C  to 25 °C  give_way  to lush  green  meadows  and thick  green  forests  of pine  & deodar  trees  while in the winter  when the temperature  falls  to –5 °C  to 10 °C , the angel  white  snow  make  it the ideal  place  for skiing .
The 2000  years  old  archaeological  remains  situated  at an altitude  of 2600  ft  above sea_level  include  two  Buddhist  stupas  and 6  monasteries , scattered  over the slope  opposite the main  structure  of the ski_resort , measuring  310  meters  north  to south  and 500  meters  east  to west .
The main  stupa  uncovered  in these remains  depicts  a circular  plinth , with moulding . 
The diameter  is  13 .01  meters ; the maximum  surviving  height  is  1 .50  meters . 
The lower  wall  curves  gently  inwards  and there is  a small  projection  that sticks_out  a short  distance  at the base  of the actual  stupa .
Malam Jabba boasts  of two  major  treks  amidst beautiful  scenery : the first  track  is  winding  through Ghorband Valley  and Shangla top  is  18  km  from the resort . 
It is  a  jeepable  track  overlooking  the Miandam settlement  and reaches  Shangla top  in 1 1 /2  hours  from where the adventure  seekers  can proceed  to the Karakoram Highway , while the other  major  track  leads  to Saboney valley , 17  km  from the resort  through thick  pine  forests  and peach  and apple  orchards .
Malam Jabba is  part  of the picturesque  Swat valley  which sprawls  over 10 ,360   sq.km . 
Swat, which has been  inhabited  for over 2000  years  is  known  to be  the cradle  of Buddhism .
The strategic  location  of Malam Jabba makes  it convenient  for tourists  to access  other  tourist  destinations  such as: Mingora (the white  palace , museum  and orchard  farms ), Kabal (golf_course ) Miandam (for its scenic  beauty  & surrounding  peaks ) Kalam (for trout  fishing ).
If Malam Jabba and its surroundings  have already  begun  to charm  you, then you must visit  these places  and experience  the enchantment  for yourself.
Northern  Pakistan  has  the greatest  concentration  of the highest  peaks  of the world : it has  5  peaks  over 8 ,000  metres  including  the world  second  highest , K2  (Chogori, 8611  m ), 29  peaks  of over 7 ,500  metres  and 121  of over 7 ,000  metres .
 :110 : All  peaks /routes  for mountaineering  have been designated  as open  zone  or restricted  zone .
 :111 : Permits  for climbing  peaks  in the open  zone , are issued  by the Ministry  of Tourism , within 24  hours  of the receipt  of application .
 :112 : However , for peaks /routes  in the restricted  zone , permit  is issued  within 14  days  from the date  of receipt  of the application  in the Ministry  of Tourism , Government  of Pakistan  (Operation Section ), 9 th  Floor , Green Trust Towers, Blue Area , Jinnah Avenue , Islamabad .
 :113 : Pakistani  Liaison  Officer  would accompany  all  mountaineering  expeditions .
 :114 : Stretching  north  from the Arabian_Sea , the plains  of Pakistan  culminate  in the lush  valleys  of Dir, Swat and Kaghan. 
 :105 : Beyond them, lie  the great  northern  valleys  of Chitral, Gilgit, Hunza and Baltistan.
 :115 : Separating  the two  river  systems  which drain  from these valleys  is  the Hindu Raj range , a chain_of_mountains  which forms  one of the sharpest  cultural  boundaries  in the world : the cultural  line  between Central  and Northern  Asia .
 :116 : Still  further  north , the Karakoram  and  the Hindu_Kush  ranges  shape  the western  extension  of the Himalayas .
 :117 : Tough  and sparsely  populated , Pakistan ’s northern  valleys  exhibit  the diversity  one would expect  of a boundary  area .
 :118 : In the east , Baltistan shows  an affinity  with Tibet ; in_fact , its language  is  a dialect  of archaic  Tibetan  and many  remnants  of the Tibetan  culture  can still  be observed . 
 :119 : In the Gilgit region , Shina  is  the dominant  language .
