The_Pelican_State ,  Bayou State , Louisiana  (La Louisianne) was named  by French  explorer  Sieur_de_La_Salle  after King  Louis_XIV  of France .
Louisiana  is  located  on the Southern Gulf  and is bordered  by Mississippi  on the east , Gulf_of_Mexico  (south ), Texas  (west ), and Arkansas  (north ).  
At 47 ,720  square_miles , Louisiana  is  the the 31 st  biggest  state .
 :3 : The climate  of all  the major  regions  of Louisiana  is characterized  by short  mild  winters  and long , hot , and generally  humid  summers .
Louisiana  has been governed  under 10  different  flags  beginning  in 1541  with Hernando de Soto's claim  of the region  for Spain .
La_Salle  later  claimed  it for Bourbon  France  and over  the years  Louisiana  was 
 at one time or another   subject  to the Union_Jack  of Great_Britain , the Tricolor  of Napoleon , the Lone Star flag  of the Republic  of West  Florida  and the fifteen  stars_and_stripes  of the United_States .
At the outbreak  of the Civil_War , Louisiana  became  an independent  republic  for six  weeks  before  joining  the Confederacy .
Earlier , in 1803 , Louisiana  had become  a part  of the United_States  because of the region  importance  to the trade  and security  of the American  midwest .
New_Orleans  and the surrounding  territory  controlled  the mouth  of the Mississippi_River  down which much of the produce  of the midwest  traveled  to reach  market .
To get  the vital  region  in American  hands , President  Thomas_Jefferson  negotiated  the Louisiana_Purchase  with Napoleon .
With the acquisition  of Louisiana , Jefferson  nearly  doubled  the size  of the fledgling  U.S.  and made  it a world  power .
Through much of its early  history  Louisiana  was  a trading  and financial  center  and the fertility  of its land  made  it one of the richest  regions  in America , as first  indigo  then  sugar  and cotton  rose  to prominence  in world  markets .
Many  Louisiana  planters  were  among the wealthiest  men  in America .
The plantation  economy  was shattered  by the Civil_War  although the state  continued  to be  a powerful  agricultural  region .
The discovery  of sulfur  in 1869  and oil  in 1901 , coupled  with the rise  of forestry  sent  the state  on a new  wave  of economic_growth .     
Eventually , Louisiana  became  a major  American  producer  of oil  and_natural_gas  and a center  of petroleum  refining  and petrochemicals  manufacturing , which it remains  to this day .
 :17 : Part  of the Territory  of New_Orleans , Louisiana  became  the 18 th  state  to unite  under America  on April  30 , 1812 .
The French  inhabitants  of Louisiana  constitute  a unique  element  in the state  population .
The 'Creoles ' are descended  from the French , some  Spanish , and even  some  German  settlers  who came  to the colony  in the 18 th  century .
In 1755  the Frenchspeaking  people  of Acadia , most of which is  now  part  of the Canadian  province  of Nova_Scotia , were ousted  from their homes  by the British  and some of them came  to Louisiana  beginning  in the 1760 s.
The Creoles  and the Cajuns , who have partly  merged , retain  much of their original  culture , including  the French  language  and the Roman_Catholic  religion .
The State_Capital  is  Baton_Rouge : other  major  cities  or towns  include  Lake Charles, Monroe , New_Orleans  and Shreveport .
The  Natural State ,  Bowie State  or  Toothpick State  (refer  to Bowie_knives  and their handles ), Arkansas  takes  its name  from a variation  of "Kansas ," from the Kansas_River  and Kansas  Indians .
Arkansas  is  located  in the Mid South ; Arkansas  is  the northwestern  most of the states  commonly  considered  the South .
Arkansas  is bordered  by Missouri  on the north , Tennessee  & Mississippi  (east ), Louisiana  (south ), Texas  & Oklahoma  (west ). 
For water  enthusiasts , Arkansas  has  more_than  9 ,700  miles  of streams  and 600 ,000  acres  of lakes .
Fishing  for trout  and bass  remains  the 
number_one  attraction  in Arkansas  waters : boating , sailing , swimming , skiing , scuba_diving  and snorkeling  are  also  popular .
Eighteen  rivers  are  prime  floating  spots , including  America  first  national  river , the pristine  Buffalo River .
Arkansas  widely  varied  landscapes  are  home  to a history  rich  in intriguing  sub plots .
A trip  across the state  can lead  from Mississippi_River  bottomlands  to mid America  most  prominent  peaks ; from a  legacy  of Deep_South  cotton  culture  to a town  on a Wild_West  frontier .
As the eastern  lands  were settled , more  Indians  moved  to sparsely  inhabited  Arkansas .
The Indians  who lived  in Arkansas  included  the Folsom people , Bluff Dwellers, Mound_Builders , Caddos , Quapaws , Osage , Choctaw  and Cherokee .
One  hundred  and thirtyone  years  later , two  Frenchmen  named  Marquette  and Joliet  visited  Arkansas  briefly .
In 1682 , at the mouth  of the Mississippi ,_LaSalle  claimed  the Mississippi  Valley  for France , but was later  assassinated  by two  of his companions .
In 1686 , Henri De Tonti set_out  from Fort  St. Louis on the Illinois_River  to meet  LaSalle  at the mouth  of the Mississippi .
In 1762 , the entire  Louisiana  Territory  was ceded  to Spain , and Spanish  governors  offered  free  land  and no  taxes  to encourage  settlers  to inhabit  the area .
In 1803 , the Louisiana_Purchase  was acquired  by the United_States , and, in 1819 , Arkansas  was organized  as a territory .
By 1836 , the Arkansas  Territory  had  the 60 ,000  residents  required  to become  a state , and after writing  an acceptable  constitution , was declared  the 25 th  state  in the United_States .
The new  state  enjoyed  a thirty  year  period  of prosperity , and by 1860  had  a population  of 435 ,000 , 25  percent  of whom were  slaves .
The majority  of the residents  were  planters  who lived  in the rich  bottomlands  of the east  and southeastern  portion  of the state  and farmers  who lived  in the central  and northern  hills .
During the Civil_War  (1861 1865 ) Slavery  increased  greatly  in Arkansas  after  a cotton  boom  in 1818 .
Arkansas  wasn't readmitted  to the Union  until 1868 , when it finally  adopted  a constitution  giving  African_Americans  the right  to vote  and hold  office . 
Arkansas  Native_American  population  was peaking  when the Spanish  explorer  Hernando De Soto reached  the state  in 1541 .
There were  tens  of thousands  of people  in villages  near the_Mississippi_River  and other  groups  located  across the state .
Frenchmen  established  the first  European  settlement  on the Lower  Mississippi  near the Arkansas_River .
The first  clear  record  of AfricanAmericans  in Arkansas  is  from 1721 , more_than  a hundred  years  before  statehood .
The Golden_State , California  takes  its name  from a makebelieve  island  filled  with gold  in a Spanish  novel .
Hollywood  has  long  been  the world  capital  of motionpicture  and television  film  production , in_turn  drawing  numerous  tourists .
Other  popular  Californian  tourist  attractions  include  Disneyland , Sea World, the San_Diego  Zoo  and other  theme_parks , 
San_Francisco , Tijuana  (just  across the Mexican  border  from San_Diego ), and California  spectacular  national_parks  and miles  of beautiful  beaches .
With mountains  to the east  and deserts  to the south , California  has  the best of all  worlds . You can Snow Ski  in mountains  then  drive  less  than two  hours  and be  in soaring  high  temperatures , all in the same  day .
National_Parks  & Monuments  include  Channel Islands, Death_Valley , Joshua Tree, Kings Canyon , Lassen Volcanic, Mojave , Redwood, Sequoia, Yosemite, Cabrillo, Devil's Postpile, Lava Beds, Muir Woods, and Pinnacles.
Spain  claimed  and occupied  California  in the interest  of increasing  Spanish  and Catholic  influence .
The Spanish  colonization  was highly  authoritarian  and subject  to all  the inefficiencies  of centralized  planning .
To their credit , the Spanish  envisioned  the native  population  as playing  an important  role  as Catholic  citizens , but the mission /presidio  system  failed  to adopt  the Indians  to this role  and failed  to attract  a sufficient  number  of Spanish  settlers . 
When Mexico  fought  and obtained  independence , California  lost  virtually  all  its centralized  support .
As members  of an isolated  community , Californians  spent  three  decades  in political  confusion  (at one  point , a California based  republic  was declared ).
The richest  families  turned_to  the one  industry  guaranteed  to earn  a comfortable  living   selling  hides  and tallow  generated  from the virtually  free  cattle  that roamed  the vast  ranches .
In an attempt  to increase  the non Indian  population , foreigners  of all  types  were admitted .
Soon  a sizable  minority  of Yankees  grew , dominating  the merchant  class  and entering  into important  positions  in the political  and social  structure .
The defense  of California , completely  neglected  by Mexico  and lacking  support  from unstable  California  administrations , led  to the unusual  condition  where any of several  world  powers  could have easily  occupied  California .
Just  one  month  after , due_to  the Mexican American  war  that in_turn  stemmed  from the Yankee  takeover  of Texas , the American  Navy  took_control  of California  without firing  a shot .
Most  Californians  were resigned  to inevitable  Yankee  rule , though a revolt  at Los_Angeles  led  to a pocket  of Californian  resistance  lasting  from September  1846  to January  1847 .
California  was officially  made  a territory  with the end  of the Mexican American  war  on February  2 , 1848 , nine  days  before gold  was discovered  at Sutter's Mill .
Through some  local  PR  efforts  and support  in late  1848  from President  Polk  himself, a gold  mania  swept  the United_States  and the world  resulting  in the remarkable  49 er migration .
The population  soared , quickly  (and brutally ) overwhelming  the Californian  and Indians .
Political_leaders  seized  the moment  to obtain  a constitution  and voter  ratification  by November  1849 , with recognition  by the U.S.  Congress  in October  1850 .
Meanwhile , the great  influx  of miners  was redirected  to farming , trade , and business .
The beauty , richness  and climate  of California   as well as a lack  of options  for bankrupt  miners   kept  the population  here  long  after  the gold  mania  died_down .
The State  of California , a chaotic  mix  of ethnicities  and incomes , hopes  and cynicism  was born . 
During World_War_II , U.S.  citizens  of Japanese  descent  were rounded_up  and confined  in internment_camps .
Though the government  claimed  it was  necessary  for security  reasons , the effort  was driven  largely  by greed .
Today , thousands  of Mexicans  contribute  to the seasonal  migrant  labor  hired  to gather  and pack  crops .
Not  all  Californians  have  cement  pools  or are  movie_stars  but with a State  population  that just  exceeds  the entire  population  of Canada , California  has  the largest  percentage  of millionaires  in the U.S. 
More  immigrants  settle  in California  than any  other  state , more_than  one_third  of the nation  total  in 1994 .
The most  numerous  group  of immigrants  are  Asians  and Pacific  Islanders , though many  Mexicans  immigrate  to California , either legally  or by illegally  crossing  the border  between California  and Texas .
Whites  remain  the largest  ethnic  group  but, for the first  time , no_longer  constitute  the majority .
The State_Capital  is  Sacramento : other  major  cities  or towns  include  Los_Angeles , San_Diego , San_Jose , San_Francisco , Long_Beach , Fresno , Oakland , Santa_Ana  and Anaheim .
Show_Me_State ,  Bullion State ,  Lead State , 
 Cave State ,  Ozark State , Missouri  was  named  after the Missouri_river,  which was named  for the Missouri  Indians  meaning  "canoe  haver"
As part  of the Louisiana_Purchase  territory , Missouri  has belonged  to three  nations : France , Spain  and the United_States .
The area  to the west  and northwest  of the state , which had been  in the territory , was  commonly  known_as  the "Missouri Country" until May  30 , 1854 , and certain of the post_offices  in this area  show  a Missouri  abbreviation  in the postmark .
By a secret  treaty  in 1802 , Spain  ceded  the Louisiana  Territory  back to France .
Pro slavers  became  politically  powerful  and Mormon  settlers , who opposed  slavery , were driven_out  from the state  in 1839 .
Residents  also  contributed  to the violence  that 
tore  Kansas  apart  after the passage  of the KansasNebraska Act  in 1854 .
But there were  also  anti slavery  leaders , including  Senator  Thomas_Hart_Benton , and residents  voted  against secession  in 1861 .
Missouri  was  plagued  with lawlessness  during and after the war , but became  more  urbanized  and industrialized  and less  southern  as railroads  tied  it more  closely  to the East  and North .
Nearly   threefifths  of the state  black  population  lives  within the city  boundaries  of Kansas_City  or St._Louis .
Asians  are  1 .1  percent  of the people , 
Native_Americans  0 .4  percent , Native_Hawaiians  and other  Pacific  Islanders  0 .1  percent , and those of mixed  heritage  or not  reporting  ethnicity  2 .3  percent .
Iowa  was named  after the Iowa River , which was named  after the Iowa  Indians ; the tribal  name  'Ayuxwa' means  "one who puts  to sleep ".
Iowa  is named  after a Native_American  tribe  and is nicknamed  after Chief  Black_Hawk .
Following  the Black Hawk War , the Sauk  and Fox  Indians  were forced  to make  their first  land  cessions  west  of the Mississippi .
Black Hawk (a Native_American  tribe ) gave  the 
United_States  the fertile  Mississippi_River  valley  lands  of eastern  Iowa  in exchange  for a small  amount  of cash , 40  barrels  of salt , 40  barrels  of tobacco  and some  blacksmith  services .
Today , descendants  of the two  tribes  live  in the Meskwaki Settlement , an area  of land  around Tama in central  Iowa  that was bought_back  from the government  in 1856 .
The first  United_States  citizens  to visit  present  Iowa  were  members  of the 
Lewis_and_Clark_expedition , which transited  the area  en_route  to the Pacific_Ocean  shortly  after the Louisiana_Purchase .
Today , a monument  commemorates  Sergeant  Charles Floyd, the only  member  who died  during the expedition .
Acquired  by U.S. , present  Iowa  was  part  of the Louisiana_Purchase , the vast  wilderness  President  Thomas_Jefferson  bought  from France .
White  settlement  began  with the Black Hawk Purchase , after which Iowa  became  part  of Michigan  Territory 
In 1836 , Michigan  achieved   statehood  and Iowa  then  became  a part  of Wisconsin  Territory .
Suburban  areas  and towns  not_far  from the large  cities  were  the fastest  growing  parts  of the state .
Blacks  were  2 .1  percent  of the population , Asians  1 .3  percent , Native_Americans  were  0 .3  percent , and those of mixed  heritage  or not  reporting  ethnicity  were  2 .4  percent . Native_Hawaiians  and other  Pacific  Islanders  numbered  1 ,009 .
A few  hundred  Sac  and Fox  Native_Americans  lived  on a small  reservation  near Tama, but many  Native_Americans  also  lived  in cities , especially  Sioux_City .
Minnesota  climate  is classified  as humid  continental  because normally  there is  a sufficient  amount  of precipitation  to provide  at_least  some  surplus  for runoff , and because Minnesota  temperature  conditions  are largely  controlled by its location  in the interior  of the large  landmass  of North_America .
The Dakota  signed  a treaty  with the U.S._government  for the land  where the Minnesota River  joins  the Mississippi  and, in the 1820 s, Fort  Snelling was built  there . 
