It is said  that a part  of Sakyamuni's relics  was placed  in it and two  chapels  sit  on both  sides  of the Main  Chanting  Hall .
 :2 : The left  one is devoted  to Tara, the goddess  who is believed  to be  the avatar  of Avalokitesvara , a White  Tara is  in the middle  and two  Green  Taras on each  side .
 :3 : The right  chapel  is dedicated  to Maitreya  Buddha , with a height  of 11  meters  (36  ft ). 
One can find  the statue  of Maitreya  Buddha  in the middle  of the chapel .
 :5 : The statues  of Avalokitesvara  and Bodhisattva  Manjusri created  by the First  Dalai_Lama  stands  near the statue  of Maitreya  Buddha .
 :6 : The Great  Courtyard  of the Kelsang Temple  is  the place  for lamas  to practice  and debate .
 :7 : The wall  around the courtyard  is covered  by thousands  of images  of Sakyamuni in different  postures  and expressions 
 :8 : The grand  palace  and gigantic  statues , the Tashilhunpo Monastery  also  treasures  characteristic  wall_paintings .
 :9 : Because of the variety  of shapes , resplendent  colors  and exquisite  painting , the murals  are considered  to be  another  masterpiece  of Buddhist  art .
 :10 : Rare  sutras , thangka, china  and glass  services  of the Ming  (1368 1644 ) and Qing  Dynasties  (1644 1911 ) are  also  invaluable  assets  found  in the monastery .
 :11 : If you come_across  some  important  Tibetan  festivals , such as Tibetan  New_Year  and Dancing  Deity  Festival , you may enter  the monastery  for free .
 :12 : If you want  to take  pictures  inside the palace , please ask  politely  the lamas  and it's easy  to be  lost  in the grand  palace , so please  be  careful !
 :13 : The Tashilhunpo Monastery  is  situated  at the west  part  of Shigatse City ; you can take  a walk  to the monastery  or you could opt  to travel  by pedicab .
 :14 : The Terra_Cotta  Warriors  and Horses  are  the most  significant  archeological   finds  of the 20 th  century . 
Work  is  ongoing  at this site , which is  around  1 .5  kilometers  east  of Emperor  Qin Shi Huang's Mausoleum , Lintong County , Shaanxi province . 
It is  a sight  not  to be  missed  by any  visitor  to China .
Upon ascending  the throne  at the age  of 13  (in 246  BC ), Qin Shi Huang, later  the first  Emperor  of all  China , had begun  to work  for his mausoleum .
It is speculated  that many  buried  treasures  and sacrificial  objects  had accompanied  the emperor  in his after_life .
A group  of peasants  uncovered  some  pottery  while digging  for a well  nearby the royal  tomb  in 1974 .
It caught  the attention  of archeologists  immediately  and they came  to Xian  in droves  to study  and to extend  the digs .
They had established  beyond doubt  that these artifacts  were associated  with the Qin Dynasty  (211 206  BC ).
The State  Council  was authorized  to build  a museum  on this site  in 1975 .
When completed , people  from far_and_near  came  to visit . 
Xian  and the Museum  of Qin Terra_Cotta  Warriors  and Horses  have become  landmarks  on all  travelers ' itinerary .
They are  replicas  of what the imperial  guard  should look  like in those days  of pomp  and vigor .
The museum  covers  an area  of 16 ,300  square_meters , divided  into three  sections : No.  1  Pit , No.  2  Pit , and No.  3  Pit  respectively .
All  sections  of museum  was tagged  in the order  of their discoveries . 
No.  1  Pit  is  the largest , first  opened  to the public  on China  National  Day , 1979 . 
There are  columns  of soldiers  at the front , followed  by war  chariots  at the back .
No.  2  Pit , found  in 1976 , is  20  meters  northeast  of No.  1  Pit . 
It contained  over a thousand  warriors  and 90  chariots  of wood .
It was unveiled  to the public  in 1994 .
Archeologists  came_upon  No.  3  Pit  also  in 1976 , 25  meters  northwest  of No.  1  Pit . 
It looked  like to be  the command  center  of the armed_forces  and it went_on  display  in 1989 , with 68  warriors , a war  chariot  and four  horses .
Altogether  over 7 ,000  pottery  soldiers , horses , chariots , and even  weapons  have been unearthed  from these pits .
The Terra_Cotta  Warriors  and Horses  is  a sensational  archeological   find  of all  times .
It has put  Xian  on the map  for tourists  and it was listed  by UNESCO  in 1987  as one of the world  cultural  heritages .
"Ripping  water  shimmering  on sunny  day ,Misty  mountains  shrouded  the rain ; Plain  or gaily  decked_out  like Xi Zi; West  Lake  is  always  alluring ." 
These are  the words  composed  by the famous  
Song_Dynasty  poet  Su Dongpo (960 1127 ) when he compared  the West  Lake  to Xi Zi, the most  beautiful  woman  in ancient  China .
Originally  a shallow  sea  inlet , due_to  the laying  down  of silt  this 5 .68   square kilometers  (about  1 ,404  acres ) of water  became  the famous  West  Lake .
With an average  depth  of just  five  feet  the lake  comprises  five  distinct  sections .
The largest  part  is  known_as  the Outer  Lake  and it is bounded  by the North  Inner  Lake , Yuehu Lake , West  Inner  Lake  and Lesser  South  Lake .
Held  in the embrace  of hilly  peaks  on three  sides , this water  wonderland  has been  an attraction  for centuries  and it is  small  wonder  that it was  a favourite  imperial  retreat .
The lake  and its environs  have  all  the elements  of a traditional  Chinese  garden  but on a grand  scale .
The natural  setting  of strangely  shaped  peaks , serene  forests  and springs , dense  foliage  and a myriad  of blossoms  especially  in springtime  are enhanced  by a treasure  of sculpture  and architectural  features .
Whatever  the season , the panorama  is  pleasing  to the eye  and the nuances  of light  shade  together  with the moods  of the weather  present  an everchanging  picture  that justifiably  has been described  as 'intoxicating '.
A number  of specific  features  can be singled_out  as worthy  of particular  note .
To the south  of centre  of the Outer  Lake  is  a man_made  island  known_as  the Island  of Little  Oceans , that encloses  four  small  lakes .
From here  one can view  the Three  Pools  Mirroring  the Moon  when at night  candles  are lit  in stone  lanterns  jutting_out  of the water  thus creating  the impression  of the reflections  of three  moons .
The scene  is  truly  magical  on the night  of the Autumn  Moon  Festival .
Solitary Hill Island  lies  between the Outer  Lake  and the north  Inner  Lake  and is  an ideal  spot  from which to admire  the vista .
The nearby  two  peaks , embracing  the sky , is  another  impressive  sight , especially  when crossing  the lake  by boat .
Near to the lake  can be found  the Ling Yin Temple  in its woodland  setting  near to Fei Lai Feng (Peak  Flown  From Afar ).
Legend  has  it that this limestone  peak  flew  from India  where it had formed  part  of a holy  mountain .
The Mausoleum  of General  Yue Fei is  a monument  to the patriot  who was murdered  in 1141  at the behest  of his  archrival  Qin Hui, the Song  prime_minister .
No  visitor  to the West  Lake  and Hangzhou  can fail  to learn  something  of this city  most  famous  products , namely  silk  and Longjing (Dragon Well) Tea .
Since the Tang_Dynasty  (618 907 ) silk  products  from Hangzhou  have  found their way  all_over  the world 
The National  Silk  Museum  is  the first  Chinese  national  museum  to be dedicated  to silk  culture  and is  the largest  of its kind  in the world .
A similar  museum  is dedicated  as homage  to tea .
Located  at the West  Lake  Dragon Well Tea  Plantation , the National  Tea  Museum  provides  a fascinating  insight  into the history  and production  of Chinese  tea .
Often  referred  to as the 'wonders  of West  Lake ' Longjing (Dragon Well) tea  and Hupao (Running Tiger) Fountain  is  each worthy  of the attention  of the visitor .
Another  natural  spectacle  to be found  here  is  the tidal_bore  of the Qiantang River  that has enthralled  people  for centuries .
Overlooking  the river  estuary  stands  the 13  storey  high  Six Harmonies Pagoda .
Dating  from 970  and built  on the site  of an earlier  pagoda  that served  as a lighthouse , the name  refers  to the six  codes  of Buddhism  i.e. harmony  of the body , speech  and thought  and the renunciation  of personal  pleasure , opinions  and wealth .
A climb  to the top  of the pagoda  carries  the reward  of an impressive  view  over the river .
Crossing  the river  is  the Qiantang River  Bridge , the first  two tier  bridge  to have been designed  and built  by Chinese  engineers  in modern  times .
The other  great  feat  of much  earlier  engineering  is  the Grand  Canal , linking  Hangzhou  in the south  with Beijing  in the north ; this is  the longest  manmade  waterway  in China  and surpasses  both  the Suez and Panama canals .
We hope  that the delights  of the area  surrounding  the West  Lake  will tempt  you to visit  them for yourself.
You can be assured  that the splendid  and diverse  landscape  will remain  long  in your memory  as you  call to mind  tour  sites  to be found  south  of the Yangtze_River .
West Street  is  the oldest  street  in Yangshuo with a history  of more_than  1 ,400  years .
Situated  at the center  of Yangshuo County , West Street  has become , since the 1980 's, a window  of eastern  and western  culture  and the biggest  'foreign  language  center ' in China .
West Street  is  the most  prosperous  district  in Yangshuo, and, each  year , approximately  100 ,000  foreigners  come  here  on their travels  or to attend  advanced  studies .
Visitors  are attracted  to West Street  by its unique  mix  of cultures .
West Street  is  517  meters  (1 ,696  feet ) long  and 8  meters  (26  feet ) wide , meandering  in an 'S ' along its length .
Being  completely  paved  with West Street  is  a typical  example  of a southern  China street .
West Street  is greatly  admired  by foreigners  for its simple  style  and courtyard like  setting .
There is  a saying  about West Street  that 'half  is  village  while the other  half  is  stores '.
Because, at_times , foreigners  outnumber  Chinese , West Street  is  also  called  'foreigners ' street '.
Don't be  surprised  if you hear  English  words  spoken  by elderly  Chinese  women , for West Street  is  called  'the global  village '.
West Street  is  modern  and fashionable , nearly  every  store  has  bilingual  shop  signs , and more_than  20  stores  have been opened  by foreigners  who have settled  here .
Chinese  visiting  West Street  may think  they are  in a foreign_country , while foreigners  come  here  to search  for the ancient  civilization  of China .
West Street  is  a terrific  place  to take  a rest , both physical  and psychological .
West Street  will drive all of your pressures  and burdens  away, and give  you a calmer  view  of life .
West Street  shows  different  faces  at different  times : calm  and peaceful  in the morning , while trendy  and modern  in the evening 
Traveling  to West Street  is  an experience  to be  with the landscape , with the people , with the soul , and with you.
Visiting  West Street , you will be surrounded  by an array  of traditional  folk  and amazing  international  elements .
Various  shops , craft work shops , painting  and calligraphy  stores , backpack  shops , cafes , and Chinese  Kung_Fu  academies  jostle  for attention  at West Street .
You may see  a multitude  of items , from embroidered  silk  cloth , wax painted  weaving , to tiny  shoes  worn  by women  before the liberation  of the People's_Republic_of_China  in 1949 .
On the West Street  you may find  bars  and cafes , some run  by foreigners , decorated  with bamboo  rafts , fish  baskets , wax painted  tablecloths , and_so_on .
You will be tempted  by foods  from all_over  the world : ciba (a kind  of Chinese  rice  cake ) and rice  noodle  of Yangshuo, authentic  Italian  coffee , banana  cake , Western  style  food , etc. .
On the West Street  ask  for a cup  of coffee  and let  the pretty  scenery  and dulcet  music  take  you to a fantastic  world .
Highly  Recommended , typical  local  dish : Beer  Fish   fresh  fish  caught  from the clear  water  of Li River , with a delicate  sauce , the fish  tastes  great  with beer . 
It's a wonderful  dish  to stimulate  your appetite .
Recommended  seller : 'The Tao's Authentic Beer Fish' and 'the Older Sister of Peng's Beer Fish'.
Characteristic  cafes : MeiYou Cafe: 'Meiyou' means , 'we don't have ', on the West Street .
The reason  for MeiYou shop  sign  reflects  the promise  of the host : 'Meiyou warm  beer , meiyou lousy  food , meiyou ripoffs , meiyou bad  service '.
Anne's Art Cafe : famous  for its firstclass  food  qualification , and competitive  price , each  dish  here  can be called  an art .
Paris Cafe : Providing  a highclass  service , exquisite  environment , and convenient  transportations 
Special  tourist  vehicle : Bicycle . 
As a saying  goes : 'no  bike , no  Yangshuo'. 
 :100 : Rent  a bike  to appreciate  the elegant  scenery  as well as feel  the air  of village .
“Yangtze River Cruises " specialize  in tours  of China  including  Yangtze  cruises  to the Three  Gorges .
We also  include  exploration  of the breathtaking  Shennong Stream , and ample  opportunity  to learn  about the ancient  Chinese  culture 
Come  with us and start  the vacation  of your dreams  ,“Yangtze_River  Cruises "
The best  way  to discover  China   a land  that is  splendidly  foreign  and decidedly  unforgettable   is  by our elaborately  designed  cruise  plans .
Your cruise , hotel , sightseeing  tours  and meals  are all  included  in one  price  in ,“Yangtze River Cruises"
 :106 : China  Travel  Service  offers  special  arrangements for Classic  Yangtze Packages , Splendid  Yangtze  Cruises  and Small  Group  China  Tours  to travel  anywhere  in China , including  Beijing , Xian , Yangtze_River , Shanghai , and Tibet .
 :107 : From the treeless  Mountain  Tanggula of Upper  Qinghai, the Yangtze_River  winds  3 ,900  miles  through the country  from west  to east .
 :108 : The journey  of Yangtze_River  Cruise  from Chongqing  to Wuhan  includes  the "Three  Gorges " and is characterized  by its picturesque  natural  scenery .
 :109 : The various  ports_of_call  along the way  offer  great  opportunities  to experience  our ancient  cultural  heritage .
 :110 : Come  with us and discover  this special  part  of China , with its great  humanity , beauty  and timehonored  history 
 :111 : TravelChinaGuide.com exclusively  offers  you deluxe  Yangtze_River  ships  on the Yangtze_River  with detailed  ship  description  on  facesheet , deck  plans , onboard  service , sailing  dates  and itineraries .
 :112 : The information  in our "Yangtze_River  Travel Essential" will help  you to enjoy  a smooth  and comfortable  trip .
 :113 : It is  a great  tool  to help  you to make  proper  decisions  on your "WHEN, WHICH and HOW" questions  about your cruise . 
 :114 : Our trouble_shooting  "Yangtze River FAQ's" should cover  every  question  you might have .
