Known_as  the   mother   river  by all  the Chinese  people , the 5464 kilometer  (about 3395  miles ) Yellow_River  is the second  longest  river  in China  after the Yangtze_River  .
 :2 :  :2 : The headwaters  of this mighty  Yellow_River  lie  in Kunlun_Mountains  in northwestern  Qinghai Province .
 :3 :  :3 : Yellow_River  runs  through nine  provinces  and autonomous  regions  on its way  to the   Bohai Sea  .
 :4 :  :4 : It is not  exaggerating  to say  that Yellow_River  is a melting_pot , because there are more_than  30  branches  and countless  streams  feeding  it through its course .
 :5 :  :5 : The vigorous  upper    reaches   of the Yellow_River  starts  in Qinghai Province  to Hekouzhen in Inner_Mongolia .
 :6 :  :6 : This magnificent  Yellow_River  flows  quietly , like a shy  girl  in this section , irrigating  the farmlands  and nurturing  the people .
 :7 :  :7 : Its middle    reaches   ends  at Taohuayu in Zhengzhou City , Henan Province  and here  the Yellow_River  splits  the   Loess Plateau   in half , forming  the longest  continuous  gorge  in the whole  drainage  area  of the river .
 :8 :  :8 : The Yellow_River  lower    reaches   ends  in a delta  on the   Bohai Sea  .
 :9 :  :9 : It is agreed_upon  by almost  all  the Chinese  people  that the Yellow_River  is the cradle  of Chinese  civilization , the spiritual  home  of the Chinese  people .
 :10 :  :10 : It is the waters  of the Yellow_River  and its spirit  that nurture  the whole  Chinese  nation .
 :11 :  :11 : For thousands  of years , the Yellow_River  has been admired  by literary  giants , artists , as well as by the common_people .
 :12 :  :12 : The Yellow_River  is not  just  several  letters , nor is it just  the name  of a yellow ochre colored  river .
 :13 :  :13 : Yellow_River  bears  special  significance : the   symbol   of the Chinese  nation , the spirit  of the Chinese  people  and more  importantly , civilization  itself.
 :14 :  :14 : Neolithic  (7 ,000  BC 3 ,700  BC ), Bronze  (3 ,700  BC 2 ,700  BC ) and Iron_Age  Sites  (770  BC ), and_so_on  can be found  in the Yellow_River  drainage  basin , which had been the center  of ancient  Chinese  culture  since the Azilian (  Middle Stone Age  ).
 :15 :  :15 : The story  of three  cultural  heroes : Suirenshi who taught  the Chinese  to make  fire  by   drilling   wood , Fu Hsi who was the inventor  of hunting , trapping  and fishing  and Shennongshi who invented  agriculture , was spread , these three  legendary  individuals  that began  the development  of civilization  in the Yellow_River  basin .
 :16 :  :16 : Many  ancient  Chinese  emperors , like Emperor  Qin Shi Huang , Genghis_khan  (1162 1227 , grandfather  of Kublai_Khan  who is the first  emperor  of the Yuan_Dynasty  (1271 1368 )) pushed  the Yellow_River  civilization  to a wholly  new  level  of refinement , grace  and spirituality  which drew  the attention  of the whole  world .
 :17 :  :17 : Rich cultural  relics , history  and gorgeous  natural  sceneries  make the Yellow_River  a fine  place  to visit .
 :18 :  :18 : Along the Yellow_River , there are dozens  of worthwhile  attractions . They are stretching  arms  and waiting  for your visit .
 :19 :  :19 : Zhouzhuang, one of the most  famous  water townships  in China , situated  in Kunshan City  which is only  30  kilometers  (18  miles ) southeast  of Suzhou.
 :20 :  :20 : It is noted  for Zhouzhuang’s profound  cultural  background , the well  preserved  ancient  residential  houses , the elegant  watery  views  and the strong  local  colored  traditions  and customs 
 :21 :  :21 : In the Spring  and Autumn  Period  (770   476  BC), Zhouzhuang was a part  of the fief  Yaocheng and called  Zhenfengli.
 :22 :  :22 : After being donated  to Full Fortune (Quanfu) Temple  by Zhou Digong, a very  devout  Buddhist , in 1086  during the Northern  Song_Dynasty  (960   1127 ), Zhouzhuang got  its present  name  as a memorial  of the donor .
 :23 :  :23 : In an area  of half  a   square kilometer   (124  acres ), 60  percent  of the Zhouzhuang's structures  were built  during the Ming  and Qing_Dynasties , which is from 1368  to 1911 .
 :24 :  :24 : Taking  the most  convenient  form  of transport  in Zhouzhuang, a gondola , we will present  some of the breathtaking  sights  one_by_one .
 :25 :  :25 : Zhouzhuang is surrounded  and divided  by lakes  and rivers , 14  stone  bridges  cross  the rivers , showing  distinctive  views  of the watertown
 :26 :  :26 : Twin  Bridges  which comprise Shide Bridge  and Yongan Bridge  are the most  famous  and is considered  the symbol  of Zhouzhuang.
 :27 :  :27 : Built  in Wanli era  (1573   1619 ) of the Ming_Dynasty , Twin  Bridges  is in the northeast  of the town .
 :28 :  :28 : Shide Bridge  is eastwest and has a round  arch , while Yongan Bridge  is northsouth and the bridge  arch  is square .
 :29 :  :29 : Crossing the two  crisscross  rivers  (Yinzi Creek  and Nabeishi River ) and connecting at the middle , Twin Bridges look like a Chinese  old style Chinese  key .
 :30 :  :30 : In 1984 , 38  canvases  of the notable  painter , Chen Yifei, were exhibited  in a New_York  gallery  of Armand Hammer, chairman  of Occidental  Petroleum  Corporation .
 :31 :  :31 : 'Memory  of Hometown ' which depicts  Twin Bridges was one of the items  on display  and has gained  the world  attention  for Zhouzhuang.
 :32 :  :32 : The painting  of Twin Brigdge was chosen  to be the first day  cover of the United_Nations ' postage_stamp  in 1985 .
 :33 :  :33 : Located  at the eastern  end  of Zhongshi Jie, Fuan Bridge  was built  in 1355  during the Yuan_Dynasty .
 :34 :  :34 : The unique  trait  of the Fuan is the consummate  combination  of the single arch  bridge  and the bridge  towers  which have , are used as tearooms , restaurants  and stores , and are good  places  to appreciate  the views  while taking a rest .
 :35 :  :35 : Built  in 1742  and located  at the southeast  side  of Fuan Bridge , Shen House was the private  property  of the descendant  of Shen Wansan, the first  millionaire  of Jiangnan (South  of Yangtze_River ) in the early  Qing_Dynasty .
 :36 :  :36 : . The whole  architectural  complex  is of the Qing  style  and occupies  an area  of more_than  2 ,000  square meters (half  an acre ).
 :37 :  :37 : Over 100  rooms  are divided  into three  sections  and each  one is connected  by arcades  and aisles .
 :38 :  :38 : The first  is the water_gate  and the wharf , where Shen's family  moored  boats  and washed  clothes .
 :39 :  :39 : Bricky gate  tower  carved  with lively  and ingenious  figures  which tell  the historic  stories  or show  the good wishes , make  it a rare  artwork .
 :40 :  :40 : Tea  room  and main  hall  are places  for serving  guests , and the furnishings  in here  are all  very  elegant .
 :41 :  :41 : The last  section  is the two storied  dwelling  which consists  of several  buildings  which are quite  different  from the main  hall , more  comfortable  and refined  in pattern  and atmosphere .
 :42 :  :42 : The painted  sculpture  of legendary  Shen Wansan is in Datang Tower ; cultural  relics  including  ancient  folk  instruments  are exhibited  in Xiaotang Tower  and Back Hall .
 :43 :  :43 : Zhang House : Built  by Xu's family  in the Zhengtong era  (1436   1449 ) of the Ming_Dynasty  and bought  by Zhang's family  in the early  Qing_Dynasty .
 :44 :  :44 : Located  to the south  of the Twin Bridges , Zhang House  has more_than  70  rooms  and takes_up  about  1 ,800  square meters (less_than  half  an acre ).
 :45 :  :45 : With Ruojing River  flowing  through, Zhang House  is a dapper  and graceful  residential  house ; has a tranquil  courtyard  and pond . Deep  halls  all  represent  the life  of the quondam  owner .
 :46 :  :46 : Once  called  the De's Tavern , Milou Tower  perches next to Zhenfeng Bridge  which is at the southwest  corner  of Zhouzhuang
 :47 :  :47 : Milou Tower  is famous  for being a rallying  place  of the litterateurs  in old  times .
 :48 :  :48 : Numerous  poems , songs  and stories  about Milou Tower  are wide_spread  and make it more  charming .
 :49 :  :49 : Standing on Zhongshi Street  which is opposite  to Puqing Bridge , Chengxu Taoist  Temple  was built  during 1086   1093  of the Song_Dynasty  and also  known_as  Sanctity  Hall  (Shengtang Hall ).
 :50 :  :50 : After several  periods  of expansion , it is one of the most  famous  Taoist  temples  in Wuzhong Region .
 :51 :  :51 : In an area  of 1 ,500  square_meters  (1 ,800  square_yards ), simple  but majestic  Shengdi and Doumu halls , Yuhuang, Wenchang and Shengdi pavilions  are really  elaborate  works  and masterpieces  of Taoist  architectures .
 :52 :  :52 : The preceding  sightseeing  sites  are just  a little part of the pretty  attractions  of Zhouzhuang.
 :53 :  :53 : Besides  the historic  sights , the local  folklore , traditions  and legends  of this water township , such as the dragon boat_race , the granny tea or the Wansan homestyle banquet  which are formed  from the immemorial  civilization  and history  are also  the indispensable  elements  for an unforgettable  tour .
 :54 :  :54 : Thailand  is fortunate  in its prime    location   for tourism    in terms of   such natural  attractions  as beaches  and mountains , cultural  and historical  sites  which reflect  the glories  of Thai  civilization , and a sophisticated  infrastructure , allowing  visitors  easy  access  to all  these treasures . 
 :55 :  :55 : The government  policy  on tourism  for the past  years  has been gearing towards more  and more  sustainable  tourism  development  with emphasis  on community  participation , safety  of tourists  and non exploitation .
 :56 :  :56 : The term  “ecotourism ” has been widely  used  to describe  a form  of tourism  in natural  areas  that is based  on the knowledge  about and responsibility  towards the ecological  system  of the area .
 :57 :  :57 : At present , the number  of real  ecotourism  visitors  is still  minimal . Mostly , those tourists  are included  in other  types  of tourism  such as nature based  tourism ,   agrotourism  , cultural  and historical  tourism  and health  tourism .
 :58 :  :58 : Most of eco_tourism  areas  are in natural  parks  and specific  historical cultural  areas .
 :59 :  :59 : The national_parks  system  in Thailand  was previously  cited  its growing  importance  to the ecotourism  industry .
 :60 :  :60 : Most  parks  of Thailand  are easily  accessible  by road , there exists  excellent  potential  to expand  the number  of visitors  who use  them.
 :61 :  :61 : In the case  of the Maekong River , the nature based  tourism  potential  particularly  applies  to Northeast  Thailand , an area  that the TAT has identified  as a priority  for tourism  development .
 :62 :  :62 : In the case of the Maekong River , the naturebased tourism potential particularly applies to Northeast Thailand, an area that the TAT has identified as a priority for tourism development. (Repeated at 61 )
 :63 :  :63 : As the Mekong region  increases  in its exposure  and popularity , these parks  will experience  an increased  number  of visitors  in search  of quality  ecotours .
 :64 :  :64 : On marine  ecotourism , the last  30  years  saw  the country  establishing  18  marine  national_parks  as well as more than 70  terrestrial  ones. Many  of the activities  available  on and around Thailand  Crystal seas  are environmentally  sound .
 :65 :  :65 : Sea  canoeing , windsurfing  biking , walking , swimming , snorkeling  and sailing  are, when practiced  as they should be, perfectly  respectful  of nature . Diving , the most  popular  water_sport  in Thailand  can be just  as green .
 :66 :  :66 : Thailand  has a great  opportunity  to promote  ecotourism , especially  when compared  to other  countries  in the Asia  region .
 :67 :  :67 : The kingdom  enjoys  such benefits  as easy  access , sophisticated  infrastructure  and myriad  tourist  attractions  and activities .
 :68 :  :68 : Sea  canoeing  is the ecotourist  activity  par_excellence , and provides  the benefit  of the natural  approach . The quiet  of this mode  of tourism  heightens  your sense  of awareness , and wildlife  is not  scared  by your silent  approach . 
 :69 :  :69 : Eco_Tourism  is also  an exciting  physical  challenge  providing  an aerobic  workout  and tones  and develops  your arms , shoulders  and chest .
 :70 :  :70 : Some of the most  spectacular  sites  for sea  canoeing  are around Krabi and the island  of Phuket and Phangnga Bay .
 :71 :  :71 : Sea Cone Thailand , based  in Phuket, was the pioneering  ecotour company  that launched  thousands  of travellers  on their sea  adventures .
 :72 :  :72 : Sea  canoeing  adventures  from Phuket take small  groups  of two  passengers  on inflatable  kayaks , accompanied  by a support  boat  carrying  food  and equipment .
 :73 :  :73 : Three  day  excursions  include  instruction  in kayak  management , camping  and barbecue  dinners  and the exploration  of eight  islands , including  Ko Chong Lat and its Blue Room , a three  chamber  stalactite  grotto .
 :74 :  :74 : On the southeastern  seaboard  near the Cambodian  border , Ko Chang National_Park  in Trat Province  has more_than  50  pristine  islands  ready  to be explored  by sea  canoe .
 :75 :  :75 : Ko Kra has some of the best  coral  in Thailand , but no  less  spectacular  are the golden  sands  of KO Mak and the bays  of Ko Ngarm.
 :76 :  :76 : Although sea  canoes  are easy  to handle  and all  safety  equipment  is provided , it is best  to get instruction  first .
 :77 :  :77 : Sea  canoe  expeditions  are running  all  year  round , although the rains  from June  to October  can inhibit  operations .
 :78 :  :78 : Windsurfing  has become  one of Thailand ’s most  popular  water_sports  in the last  two  decades , and it is practiced  all over Thailand ’s beaches 
 :79 :  :79 : Windsurfing  is not_only  exhilarating  and an excellent  way  to get  fit , it is also  quiet , non polluting  and environmentally  friendly  It is a sport  that requires  dexterity  and coordination  and also  strength .
 :80 :  :80 : You can learn  to windsurf  on all  major  beaches  in Phuket, Samui, Pattaya and Krabi, as well as on islands  of Ko Tao and Ko Chang.
 :81 :  :81 : You have mastered  the basics ; you’ll find  boards  and sails  available  everywhere , While you need  wind  to windsurf , you can get  too_much  of a good  thing .
 :82 :  :82 : Don’t go_out  to sea  if the weather  is threatening  to turn  stormy  for windsurfing .
 :83 :  :83 : You should wear  a life_jacket  at all  times  and beware  of boats  and swimmers  on crowded  stretches  of water , especially  when you are still learning  how to handle  your board  and sail .
 :84 :  :84 : It is easy  to forget  about the sun  with the wind  on your face , but it is especially  strong  when reflecting  off  the water  all  around  you, so wear  protective  sunblock .
 :85 :  :85 : Jetskiing has been taken_up  with enthusiasm  all_over  Thailand  with jetskis available  for hire  at all  major  beaches  in Thailand Samui.
 :86 :  :86 : Phuket, Pattaya, Samet and Krabi. Despite the speed , jetskiing in Thailand  is a safe  sport .
 :87 :  :87 : If you keep your head and watch_out  for other  sea  traffic , especially  swimmers  and snorkellers, Rocks  are usually marked , but take_care , especially  at low_tide . 
 :88 :  :88 : When you are roaring  around the bays , it’s easy  to forget  that you’re in the full  force  of the sun , so protect  yourself beforehand .
 :89 :  :89 : One of the best  ways  to appreciate  the grandeur  and significance  of Thailand ’s history  is to absorb  the atmosphere  of the ruins  and monuments  of past  Thai  civilisations .
 :90 :  :90 : Visitors  can stroll  into a thousand  years  of history  at the historical  parks  of Sukhothai, Lop Buri, Si Satchanalai and Ayutthaya. Out of the historical  parks , Phra Pathom Chedi in Nakhon Pathom is an aweinspiring  sight : The tallest  Buddhist  monument  in the world  and also  where Buddhism  was first  taught  in this Buddhist  country .
 :91 :  :91 : One can enjoy  the culture  just  by walking  down  the street  of Chiang Mai, Here  at Wat Pa Pao in Chang Phuak (White Elephant) District , for example , are gorgeous  examples  of Burmese  and Shan temple  architecture .
 :92 :  :92 : short  walk  southeast  of the old  town  are the weather_–_worn  earthen  ramparts  erected  by Chao Kavila, the warrior  who in 1776  drove  the Burmese  out and restored  the city  to its former  glory .
 :93 :  :93 : Westward  is Doi Suthep, a mountain  named  after the hermit  whose modest  cave  is just  above  Wat Phar That Doi Suthep.
 :94 :  :94 : There are many  temples  in Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Lamphun, Lampang, Mae Hong Son and Nan where visitors  can enjoy  the learn  about the northern  history  and architecture .
 :95 :  :95 : History  lovers  may prefer  to wander  among the ruins  of the mighty  Khmer empire  of the 11 th 12 th  centuries .
 :96 :  :96 : The best_known  is Prasat Hin PhiMai, just  outside  Nakhon Ratchasima, the largest  sandstone  sanctuary  in Thailand  of classic  Khmer design .
 :97 :  :97 : The most  spectacular  monument  is Prasat Phanom Rung in Buri Ram, a towering  structure  seated on top  of an extinct  volcano , which took  over 17  years  to restore .
 :98 :  :98 : Southern  Isan is dotted  with khmer shrines  in various  states  of repair .
 :99 :  :99 : A must – visit is Phar Borom That Chaiya in which authentic  Srivijaya architecture  is preserved  in perfect  condition , or Wat Phra Kaeo and Wat Hua Wiang also  in Surat Thani Province . Srivijaya was a group  of small  communities  scattered  along the Malay_Peninsula  from Sumatra  in Malaysia  to the southern  part  of Thailand  from the 7 th  to the 13 th  century .
 :100 :  :100 : Communities  shared  common  cultural  ground    in terms of   Buddhism , trading , governance , and architecture  in Thailand .
