The majority  of the local  residents  are engaged  in agricultural  activities  including rice  farming , upland  crop  farming , fruit  farming , palm  sugar  production , animal_husbandry  and sea  and fresh_water   fisheries .
 :2 : There are  three  important  Maenam in Phetchaburi including  "Maenam Phetchaburi with an overall  length  of 227  kilometers , "Maenam Bang Kloy", with an overall  length  of 44  kilometers , and "Maenam Bang Tabun", with an overall  length  of 18  kilometers .
 :3 : Chiang Rai, the northernmost  province  of Thailand  is  about  785  kilometers  north  of Bangkok .
 :4 : Situated  on the Kok River_basin , Chiang Rai covers  an area  of approximately  11 ,678  square_meters  with an average  elevation  of 580  meters  above sea_level . 
 :5 : The province , which is  located  within the renowned  Golden Triangle area  where Myanmar , Laos  and Thailand  converge , is  also  known_as  the  gateway  to Myanmar , Laos  and Southern  China .
 :6 : Chiang Rai, which was founded  in 1262  by King  Meng Rai, was  the first  capital  of the Lanna Thai  Kingdom  (Kingdom  of a million  rice  fields ), which was later  conquered  by Burma .
 :7 : It was  not  until 1786  that Chiang Rai became  a Thai  territory  and was proclaimed  a province  during the reign  of King  Rama VI  in 1910 .
 :8 : Today , Chiang Rai is  a traveler  paradise  endowed  with abundant  natural  tourist  attractions  and antiquities ; the province  itself is  evidence  of past  civilization .
 :9 : Attractions  range  from magnificent  mountain  scenery , ruins  of ancient  settlements , historic  sites , Buddhist  shrines  and ethnic  villages  as the province  is  also  home  to several  hill  tribes  who maintain  fascinating  lifestyles .
 :10 : For those interested  in the natural  side  of Chiang Rai, jungle  trekking  is  recommended  along various  trails .
 :11 : Chiang Rai which tends  to be  a little  more  
'laid_back ' now  competes  with Chiang Mai as a tourist  attraction  and is  fast  becoming  a popular   escape  for tourists  wanting  to get_away  from the troubles  they left_behind .
 :13 : Songkhla, one of Thailand  important  ports  and coastal  provinces , is  located  950  kilometers  from Bangkok .
 :14 : Songkhla, occupying  an area  of 7 ,393   square kilometers  on the eastern  side  of the Malaysian  Peninsula , the province  is bordered  by the States  of Kedah (Sai Buri) and Perlis of Malaysia  to the south  and the Gulf_of_Thailand  to the east .
 :15 : In_addition , Songkhla borders  on Nakhon Si Thammarat and Phatthalung Provinces  to the north , Yala and Pattani Provinces  to the south , and Satun and Phatthalung Provinces  to the west .
 :16 : An undeniably  historic  town  endowed  with ancient  ruins , arts , and places  of cultural  importance , Songkhla, a melting_pot  of Thais , Chinese  and Malays , charms  visitors  with its unique  traditions , dialect , and folk  entertainment .
 :17 : Hat Yai, a district  of Songkhla, is  perhaps  better_known  than the provincial  capital  itself.
 :18 : Some  archeologists  claim  that Krabi City  is  one of the older  settlements  in the country  as there is  archaeological  evidence  indicating  that this area  had been home  to homo_sapiens  during the 
prehistoric  times  or between 25 ,000   35 ,000  B.C. .
 :20 : Hat Yai has gained  importance  as the driving  force  of economic_growth  in the southern  region .
 :21 : Songkhla, a medieval  pirate  stronghold , is  a historic , albeit  sleepy  town  with a thriving  fishing  community .
 :22 : Srivijaya outpost  in Thailand  southern  region , Songkhla was initially  named  'Sathing'.
 :23 : Previously  a port  and a coastal  trading_post  where Indian , Persian  and Arabian  merchants  came  to exchange  their products , the place  was named  "Sing Lha" after the 2  lion shaped  islands  at the mouth  of the city  lake .
 :24 : Over the last  few  decades , Songkhla has been rapidly  developed  and is  currently  a unique  attraction  worth  visiting .
 :25 : Songkhal blessed  with natural_resources  such as fine  beaches , enchanting  waterfalls , and a tranquil  lake , the province  has  an abundance  of tourist  attractions  and an amazing  range  of seaside  resort  towns .
 :26 : The old  section  of Songkhla still  maintains  its unique  identity  of ancient  and historical  flavors  through local  architecture  and cuisine .
 :27 : While Songkhla is  noted  as a fishing  community  set  in a peaceful  atmosphere , Hat Yai, on_the_other_hand , serves  as a transportation  and communications  hub  of the south  with links  to various  destinations  in the neighboring  provinces  and Malaysia .
 :28 : Despite being  only  30  kilometers  apart , Songkhla and Hat Yai have  uniquely  contrasting  characteristics  and are  ideal  places  to visit .
 :29 : Songkhla is  administratively  divided  into 16  districts : Muang Songkhla, Ranot, Krasae Sin, Sathing Phra, Singhanakhon, Khuan Niang, Rattaphum, Bang Klam, Hat Yai, Na Mom, Chana, Thepha, Na Thawi, Saba Yoi, Sadao, and Khlong Hoi Khong.
 :30 : According  to most  historians , the ancient  town  of Kanchanaburi was  located  near Ban Lat Ya, a small  village  situated  approximately  16  kilometers  north  of the present  town .
 :31 : Kanchanaburi, which has  mostly  mountainous  terrain , covers  an area  of approximately  19 ,473  
 square kilometers  and is  the third  largest  province  in Thailand  after Chiang Mai and Nakhon Ratchasima.
The site  was repeatedly  recorded  in Thai  history  as an invasion  route  which the Burmese  used  to enter  Thai  Kingdoms .
 :33 :  :33 : Situated  approximately  129  kilometres  west  of Bangkok , Kanchanaburi shares  a border  with Myanmar  to the west , Tak and Uthai Thani Provinces  to the north , Suphan Buri and Nakhon Pathom Provinces  to the east , and Ratchaburi Province  to the south .
 :34 : In north  and west  Kanchanaburi, the terrain  is comprised  mainly  of mountains  and high  plains , with the Thanon Thongchai Range  acting  as a natural  border  between Thailand  and Myanmar .
 :35 : The range  is  the source  of Kanchanaburi's two  most  important  rivers  Maenam Khwae Noi and Maenam Khwae Yai, which form  the famous  Maenam Mae Klong.
 :36 : As a result , several of Thailand  largest  Namtok (waterfalls ) and most  extensive  wildlife  sanctuaries  are found  in this area .
 :37 : The magnificent  landscape  and charming  beauty  of Kanchanaburi have resulted  in major  tourist  attractions  including  several  wellknown  waterfalls , caves  which were once  inhabited  by Neolithic  man , pristine  national_parks , tranquil  rivers , virgin  forests , and reservoir .
 :38 : Together , they offer  an intriguing  experience  for first time  or repeat  visitors . 
Whether it’s fishing , rafting , canoeing , mountain  biking , birdwatching , stargazing , golfing , elephant  and jungle  trekking , or even  living  in bamboo  rafts , Kanchanaburi takes_pride  in offering  them all.
 :39 :  :39 : The city  of Kanchanaburi is  located  at the point  where two  tributaries , the Khwae Noi and Khwae Yai meet  and form  the Maenam Mae Klong.
 :40 : This is  the location  of the notorious  Death Railway and the Bridge on the River Kwai, one of the worlds  famous  World_War_II  sites  which has been immortalized  in print  and film .
 :41 : In economic  terms, Kanchanaburi has been doing  well  on a national  scale , with over 10  per_cent  growth  annually .
 :42 : Important  industries  include  sugar , agricultural  products  and jewelry  and tourism  is  also  a main  source  of income  for the  locals  as the province  high  tourism  potential  has made  Kanchanaburi number one among the west  provinces  in having  the highest  number  of visitors  each  year .
 :43 : Residents  of Kanchanaburi are engaged  in agricultural  activities .
 :44 : Most of the  locals  are  of Thai  ancestry  with notable  Mon  and Karen minorities  in the Kanchanburi region .
 :45 : Most of the rural  dwellers  of Kachanburi enjoy  living  simply  and respecting  nature .
 :46 : Folk_music  and dances  dating_back  at_least  500  years  are still  performed  today  in Kanchanburi.
 :47 : Located  approximately  814  kilometers  from Bangkok  is  Krabi Province , one of most  attractive  destinations  in southern  Thailand .
 :48 : Encompassing  an area  of 4 ,708   square kilometers , the western  border  of Krabi is  the Andaman_Sea , the northern  borders  are  Surat Thani and Phangnga Provinces , the southern  borders  are  Trang Province  and the Andaman_Sea  and the eastern  borders  are  Nakhon Si Thammarat and Trang Provinces .
 :49 : Krabi is  an ideal   getaway  destination  teeming  with natural  attractions  including  white  sandy  beaches , fascinating  coral_reefs , numerous  large  and small  islands  and verdant  forests  with caves  and waterfalls .
 :50 : Krabi's topography  is  mostly  mountains  and highlands  separated  by plains  in some  parts .
 :51 : Flowing  through Krabi City  to the Andaman_Sea  at Pak Nam  Subdistrict  is  Maenam Krabi which is  5  kilometers  in length .
 :52 : In_addition , there are  several  canals  originating  from the province  highest  mountain_range , Khao Phanom Bencha including  Khlong Pakasai, Khlong Krabi Yai and Khlong Krabi Noi.
 :53 : Lush  mangrove  forests  line  the canals  and the banks  of Maenam Krabi particularly  before it empties  into the Andaman_Sea .
 :54 : The province  sandy  soil  conditions  are  suitable  for growing  various  agricultural  products , particularly  rubber  trees , palms , coconuts , cashew_nuts  and coffee .
 :55 : Due_to  the influence  of the tropical  monsoon , there are  only  two  seasons  in Krabi; the hot  season  from January  to April  and the rainy_season  from May  to December . Temperatures  range  between 17  °C  and 37  °C .
 :56 : Krabi is  administratively  divided  into 8  Amphoes (Districts ): Amphoe Mueang, Khao Phanom, Khlong Thom, Plai Phraya, Ko Lanta, Ao Luek, Lam Thap, and Nuea Khlong.
 :57 : The provinces ' jurisdiction  covers  not_only  inland  districts  and  subdistricts , but also  extends  to more_than  130  large  and small  islands  including  the world  famous  Phi Phi Islands .
 :58 : In_addition , Krabi is  the location  of two  world_class  beaches  Ao Nang and Hat Rai Le which offer  numerous  diving  trips , restaurants , shops  etc. .
 :59 : Additional  attractions  in the province  of Krabi are  stunning  limestone  cliffs  and rock  formations  which make  it a heaven  for rock_climbers  and a National_Park  located  approximately  40  kilometers  outside of town  with lakes , caves  and spectacular  natural  scenery .
 :60 : Some  archeologists  claim  that Krabi City  is  one of the older  settlements  in the country  as there is archaeological  evidence  indicating  that this area  had been  home  to homo_sapiens  during the prehistoric  times  or between 25 ,000   35 ,000  B.C. .
 :61 : In 1200  A.D. , the area  of Krabi was  known_as  Ban Thai Samo, one of 12  royal  cities  that had a monkey  as the town  symbol .
 :62 : In 1200  A.D. , Krabi was  under the rule  of the Kingdom  of Ligor, a city  better  known  today  as Nakhon Si Thammarat.
 :63 : During the reign  of King  Rama V  (1868 1910 ), the community  was  known_as  Pakasai  Subcounty  and remained  under the direct  jurisdiction  of Nakhon Si Thammarat province .
 :64 : Around  1872 , King  Rama V elevated  Pakasai  Subcounty  to Krabi Province  with the provincial  administration  office  situated  at Krabiyai  Subcounty  (currently , the office  is  located  near the estuary  at Pak Nam  Subdistrict ) and in 1875 , ordered  the separation  of Krabi Province  from Nakhon Si Thammarat Province .
 :65 : During the present  reign , the corps  of civil_servants , merchants , and the people  of Krabi and nearby  provinces  have collectively  organized  the construction  of a royal  residence  at Laem Hang Nak Cape  which is  thirty  kilometers  west  of Krabi Town  on the Andaman coast  to be presented  to 
 His Majesty  the King .
 :67 : There are  two  legends  concerning  the origin  of the name  "Krabi", the first  is  that villagers  presented  a large  ancient  sword  (or krabi) that was discovered  by_chance  to the governor  and later , on discovering  a smaller  one, it was also  presented  to the governor .
As the process  for the establishment  of the province  was still  in progress , the swords  were placed  crossing  each other in Khao Khanap Nam cave .
 :69 : Since then , the crossed  swords  have remained  a part  of the provincial  seal .
 :70 : The second  legend  is  that "Krabi" was derived  from the name  of a local  tree  known_as  "Lumphi".
 :71 : The Malay  and Chinese  merchants  mispronunciation  of the name  to "Kalubi" or "Kholobi" finally  resulted  in "Krabi" (or sword ).
 :72 : Mountain  biking  is  a sport  increasing  in popularity  in Thailand , both  among Thais  and young  international  tourists .
 :73 : Mountain  biking  is  an ideal  means  of touring  Thailand  spectacular  natural  environment ; safe , cheap  and fun , and environmentally  green .
 :74 : Mountain  biking  in Thailand  is  a blend  of highgrade  exercise  and natural , cultural  and historical  discovery .
 :75 : The hilly  North  of Thailand  is  most  suitable  for mountain  biking .
 :76 : The best  time  for Mountain  biking  is  November  to February , when the weather  is  cooler .
 :77 : A number  of companies  offer  well organised  biking  tours , most include  guides  and, on certain  tours , backup  vehicles  carrying  food  and overnight equipment .
 :78 : Bikes  are  also  widely  available  in major  tourist  destinations , where they can be rented  at extremely  reasonable  rates  on a daily  basis 
 :79 : The centre  for mountain  biking  adventure  is  Pai District , where several  bike  shops  rent_out  bikes  and gear  to tourists .
 :80 : Bike  tours  explore  nearby  and remote  hill  tribe  villages , waterfalls  and hot_springs .
 :81 : Experienced  guides  are  ready  to lead  biking  parties  through breathtaking  backcountry  trails  for up to a week .
 :82 : There are  natural  cycle  paths  through the forest , first  trod  by animals , and then  beaten  by man .
 :83 : They range  from as  narrow  as a single  person ’s stride  or as  wide  as an elephant  or 
ox_cart .
 :85 : The centre  of biking  activity , the most  scenic  route  is  from Doi Inthanon to Ob Luang George via Mae Chaem.
The first  leg , a route  of about  20  kilometres , is  strictly  for experienced  mountain   bikers  while the second  section , 30  kilometre  long , is  less  demanding  and suitable  for  bikers  of intermediate  skills  and higher .
 :87 : At the ancient  Siamese  capital  of Sukhothai, there are  dedicated  cycle  paths  to take  you round the majestic  ruins , temples  and palaces .
 :88 : Further  south , a bike  is  the ideal  way  to see  the sprawling  remains  of the kingdom ’s once  great  capital  Ayutthaya.
 :89 : Just  north  of Bangkok , Nakhon Nayok has  designated  offroad  biking  trails  through the foothills  of Khao Yai National_Park .
 :90 : Khao Yai itself, with its 13  marked  trails , is  another  magnificent  mountain  biking  site .
 :91 : Other  fine  biking  routes  are  in the parks  of Khao Sam Roi Yot in Prachuap Khiri Khan, Khao Kichakut in Chanthaburi, Chalerm Rattanakosin and Saiyok in Kanchanaburi, and Kaeng Krachan in Phetchaburi.
 :92 : Nature  bike  rides  in Thung Salaeng Luang has been designed  to promote  a better  understanding  of nature  and conservation .
 :93 : Guides  are  well  trained  and accompany  participants  on bicycle  trips  offering  information  of interest  and safety  tips .
Contact  Camping Bike Co, Tel: 0  2873  0087 .
 :94 :  :94 : There are  biking  tours  to suit  all  abilities  and levels  of fitness .
 :95 : Some  mountainous  routes  are  best  suited  to more  accomplished  riders .
 :96 : Unless you are  used_to  long  periods  in the saddle , some of the longer  tours  will leave  you a little  sore .
 :97 :  Bikers  should be  in good  working  order  and capable  of handling  the terrain  you intend  to cross .
 :98 : You should carry  enough  tools  and spares  to repair  minor  mechanical  problems , as well as 
firstaid_kits  in_case  of a spill .
 :100 : As with trekking , a small  problem  when you are  far  from civilization  can be  a big  headache , so make_sure  the tour  organizer  is  well prepared .
 :101 : In the heat  of the tropics  and at altitude , consume  plenty  of water  and make_sure  you have  hats  and sunblock  to protect  you from 
ultraviolet_radiation .
 :103 : Since SpiceRoads is  the leading  cycling  tour  operator  in Thailand  and organises  more_than  10  scheduled  tours  throughout the Kingdom .
 :104 : Nong Khai is  a long  thin  province  running_along  the Mekong_River , providing  the main  access  to Laos . 
Originally  people  went  by boat  from Tha Sadet, but the building  of the Friendship Bridge  across the Mekong  has made  Nong Khai a major  centre  for transport  and trade  with Laos . 
 :106 : Attractions  include  Wat Pho Chai, renowned  for its large  seated  Buddha  believed  to have been cast  in Lan Chang, and Phra That Nong Khai, an old   chedi  that slipped  into the river  and can now  only  be seen  completely  in the dry_season . 
 :107 : Sala Kaeo Ku is  a bizarre  sculpture  garden  packed  with statues  of Shiva , Vishnu  and Buddha  as well as many  other  figures  from Hindu  and Thai  culture .
