The ships  headed  toward the general  location  of an earlier , unsuccessful  'Virginia  colony , and the Second  Roanoke  Island  colony  of 1587 .
After four  months  at sea , the voyagers  explored  the coast  north  of the old  colonial  site  and found  the vast , attractive  inlet  of Chesapeake Bay .
 Entering  the bay , they sailed  up a river  they named  James .
 Virginia  was  England  first  successful  overseas  colony  and the site  of the first  permanent  English  settlement  in America .
 Virginia  rich  political  heritage  helped  shape  the democratic  principles  on which the United_States  was founded .
Virginia  played  an important  role  in the 
American_Revolution  (1775 1783 ), and it entered  the Union  as the tenth  of the original  13  states  on June  25 , 1788 .
During the American_Civil_War  (1861 1865 ) the state  capital , Richmond , was  also  capital  of the Confederacy .
Virginia  three  large  metropolitan  areas  have  a great_deal_ of ethnic  diversity . 
The Norfolk  area , in_particular , has  one of the nation  largest  Filipino  communities , and northern  Virginia  has  the largest  Vietnamese  community  on the East_Coast .
Northern  Virginia  is  also  home  to large  communities  of Hispanics , especially  from Central_America , and Koreans .
Mountain_State ,  Panhandle State , West_Virginia  was  named  after the western  part  of Virginia  State  was  annexed  during the American_Civil_War .
 However , the region  was  largely  unpopulated  when the first  European  explorers  and fur  traders  penetrated  the region  in the 1670 s.
 The western  Virginian wilderness  served  as a common  hunting_ground  and battleground  for whites  and Indians .
 As settlers  began  crossing  the mountains , they came  into conflict  with the French , igniting  the French  and Indian  War  (1754 63 ).
 The British  Proclamation  of 1764  forbade  settlement  west  of the Alleghenies  in the hope  of avoiding  conflict  with Native_Americans .
 Native_Americans  resented  this new  invasion  and were further  angered  by the unjust  treatment  settlers  often  meted_out .
 The brutal  murder  of the family  of chief  James Logan provoked  a series  of attacks  which led  to 
Lord Dunmore's War , in which the Native_Americans  were decisively  defeated  on October  10 , 1774 .
Native_American  forces  led  by British  officers  invaded  the area  three  times  during the Revolutionary  War .
But the British  and Native_American  threat  was virtually  removed  when George Rogers Clark conquered  the Northwest  with an army  consisting  mostly  of 
West_Virginians .
West_Virginia  first  settlers  were  Germans  and Scot Irish  who traveled  down the valleys  from Pennsylvania  to settle  in what is  now  the Eastern  Panhandle .
The oldest  town  in the state  is Shepherdstown, founded  by German  families  as Mecklenburg about 1730 .
Later  settlers  crossed  the formidable  Allegheny  Plateau  after the British  government  granted  large  tracts_of_land  in the  transAllegheny  region  to the Ohio  Company  in 1749 .
The British  and French  flags  both  flew  over western  Virginia  before  it became  the state  of West_Virginia .
The pioneer  stock  of West_Virginia  was  largely  Scot Irish , German , and English .
Cut_off  from surrounding  regions , many  settlers  retained  customs  and speech_patterns  that sometimes  dated  from England  during the time  of 
Queen  Elizabeth_I .
At the time  of the 2000  federal  census  whites  constituted  95  percent  of the population , blacks  3 .2  percent , Asians  0 .5  percent , 
Native_Americans  0 .2  percent , and those of a mixed  heritage  or not  reporting  ethnicity  1  percent .
"Crossroads  of America " was declared  the official  motto  or slogan , but it's more  commonly  known  as the Hoosier_State .
 Indiana  was named  by the Congress  when it created  the Indiana  Territory  out of the Northwest  Territory  in 1800 .
It means  the "Land  of the Indians ".
 :33 : De Soto and his army  are reported  to have entered  the town  of the lord  of Casqui (Vincennes) in 1541 .
Around  1614  or 1615 , Samuel_de_Champlain , governor  of New France and the founder  of Quebec , was believed  to be  the first  of the French  explorers  to be connected  with the Maumee region .
1671 : Simon Daumont de SaintLusson declared  the lands  of the western  interior  for France  at Sault Ste. Marie.
Historic_American_Indian  tribes  lived  on the land  which inspired  the state  name   Indiana , the land  of Indians .
Settlers  from the British  colonies  on the American  east_coast  began  migrating  west  in the mid  1700 s, seeking  farmland .
The Paris Peace_Treaty  of 1783  saw  the British  Province  of Quebec  lose  all  the lands  below the Great_Lakes  after the signing .
By the American_Revolution  and the formation  of the 
United_States_of_America  brought  more  demand  for the lands  of the west .
Early  Indiana  settlers  had  a great  concern  to preserve  religious  freedom , and many  denominations  have been cultivated  here  and contribute  much  to the makeup  of Indiana  life .
There was  a residue  of Indiana  Territory  that continued  to exist  under that name  until Dec  3 , 1818 , when it was attached  to Michigan  Territory .
Indiana  is  a predominantly  urban  state , with 65  percent  of its total  population  living  in urban_areas  in 1990 .
Buckeye_State  (tree), Ohio  was named  from the Ohio_River ; Ohio  is  an Iroquois  word  meaning  "large " or "beautiful  river ".
Ohio  is  located  in the Upper MidWest  state  and is  bordered  by by Pennsylvania  on the northeast , West_Virginia  (southeast ), Kentucky  (south ), Indiana  (west ), and Michigan  and Lake_Erie  (north ).
In eastern  Ohio , the Iroquois  Indians  exterminated  the Erie  Indians  before the arrival  of Europeans .
Other  Native_American  tribes  that became  prominent  in Ohio  were  the Miami , the Shawnee , and the Ottawa .
European  rivalry  over the Ohio_River  led  to the outbreak  of the last  of the French  and Indian  Wars  in 1754 .
Native_American  resistance  continued  after Chief  Pontiac  was killed , but they were decisively  defeated  in the battle  of Fallen Timbers on August  20 , 1794 .
By the Treaty  of Greene Ville, the Indians  ceded  southern  and eastern  Ohio  to settlers .
In 1794 , Great_Britain  and the United_States  signed  the "Jay Treaty ," an agreement  to allow  Canadian  born  Native_Americans  to travel  freely  across the U.S. /Canadian  border .
Under the terms  of Jay's Treaty , the British  withdrew  their outposts  from the Northwest  in 1796 , and the area  was pacified . 
The 1 st  European  was  La_Salle  who explored  the Ohio  valley  in 1669 , claiming  the entire  area  for France .
The Ohio_River  was heavily  traveled  by fur  traders  and land  seekers .
Rivalry  between France  and Britain  for control  of the forks  of the Ohio_River  led  to the outbreak  of the last  of the French  and Indian  Wars  in 1754 .
In 1764 , the British  government  issued  a proclamation  forbidding  settlement  west  of the Appalachians .
In 1774 , the Quebec  Act  placed  the region  between the Ohio_River  and the Great_Lakes  within the boundaries  of Canada .
These acts  fueled  the resentment  of British  rule  that led  to the American_Revolution , during which 
military_operations  were conducted  in the Ohio  country .
The French  and the British  fought  over what is  now  Ohio  before it belonged  to the United_States .
Connecticut , Massachusetts , and Virginia  later  relinquished  claims  to land  in the area .
The Northwest  Territory  (not  part  of Canada  territory  having  the same  name ) later  became  the states  of Ohio , Indiana , Illinois , Wisconsin , Michigan  and part  of Minnesota .
The Keystone_State ,  Quaker State , Pennsylvania  means  "Penn  woods ."
It was named  in honor  of Admiral  William Penn, whose son , William_Penn , founded  the colony  as a haven  for Quakers  and other  religious  minorities  in 1682 .
The state  was given  its name  by England  Charles_II  in 1680 , when the King  granted  Penn  a charter .
The first  Europeans  to arrive  in Pennsylvania  encountered  four  major  Native_American  groups : the Susquehanna; Shawnee ; Delaware , or Lenni Lenape; and various  portions  of the Iroquois  Confederacy .
Shortly  after William_Penn  arrived  at Uppland (renamed  Chester ) in 1682 , he met  with the chiefs  of the Delaware  tribes  and signed  a famous  treaty  that promoted  longlasting  goodwill  between the Native_Americans  and the European  settlers .
Native_Americans  resented  continuing  encroachment  on their lands  and the land  purchase  made  by the Albany  Congress  in 1754 .
They allied  themselves with the French , who were then fortifying  positions  in the Ohio  valley .
Much of the fighting  during this French  and Indian  War  (1754 63 ) took_place  in Pennsylvania .
The tide  began  to turn  when the French  abandoned  Fort  Duquesne in 1758 , but Native_American  power  wasn't completely  broken  until an uprising  in 1763  known_as  Pontiac Rebellion  was crushed .
The English , Dutch , and Swedes  disputed  the right  to the region  of Pennsylvania  in the early  1600 s.
Explorations  were confined  to the Delaware_River  vicinity , where they carried_on  fur  trading  with 
Native_Americans .
The original  permanent  settlement  was established  on Tinicum Island  in the Delaware_River  in 1643  by Johan Printz, governor  of New  Sweden .
What is  now  Pennsylvania  was first  settled  by Swedes  in 1643  and Dutch  in 1647 . 
Operating  from their stronghold  in New_Amsterdam , the Dutch  gained  control  of the Middle  Atlantic  region  in 1655 .
The Dutch  were overpowered  by the British , who seized  control  of the region  in 1664 , and King  Charles_II  awarded  the region  to William_Penn  in 1681 .
The Scot Irish  began  settling  in the Cumberland  Valley  after 1718  and gradually  pushed  the frontiers  towards western  Pennsylvania .
Philadelphia  served  as the United_States ' leading  city  for many  years .
Philadelphia  hosted  the First  and Second  Continental_Congresses  (1774  and 1775 81 ), was  the site  of the Constitutional_Convention  of 1787  and served  as the seat  of the new  federal_government  from 1790  to 1800 .
Philadelphia  also  became  a financial  center  through the organization  of the First Bank  of the 
United_States  (1791 ) and the U.S._Mint  (1792 ).
When William_Penn  established  his colony  as a refuge  for Quakers , he promised  complete  religious  freedom  to other  oppressed  minorities .
As a result , the colony  English  Quakers  were soon  joined  by such  diverse  groups  as German  Mennonites , French  Huguenots , and Scot Irish  Presbyterians .
Ever since, Pennsylvania  has been  home  to an exceptional  variety  of nationalities  and religions .
Empire_State ,  Excelsior ,  Knickerbocker , New_York  was named  in honor  of the brother  of England  King  Charles_II , the Duke  of York  and Albany .
Variations  in terrain , elevation , and exposure  to bodies_of_water  cause  variations  in climate .
The coastal  area  has  higher  temperatures , less  frost , less  cloudiness , and fewer  storms .
Upstate  lowlands  are  subject  to considerable  extremes  in temperature , especially  during winter  when cold  air  from Canada  and the interior  invade  the state .
In summer , warm  moist  air  from the Gulf_of_Mexico  and southeastern  United_States  may bring  rains , although cloudless  skies  generally  prevail . 
The 1 st  European  was  Giovanni_da_Verrazano  (an Italian born  navigator  sailing  for France ) who entered  New_York_Bay  in 1524 .
Samuel_de_Champlain  explored  and claimed  northern  New_York  for France  in 1609 .
In 1624  the first  permanent  Dutch  settlement  was established  at Fort  Orange (now  Albany ); one  year  later  Peter_Minuit  is said  to have purchased  Manhattan Island  from the Indians  for trinkets  worth  about  $24  and founded  the Dutch  colony  of New_Amsterdam  (now  New_York_City ), which was surrendered  to the English  in 1664 .
For a short  time , New_York_City  was  the U.S.  capital , and George_Washington  was inaugurated  there  as the first  President  on April  30 , 1789 .
New_York_City  has been  the most  ethnically  diverse  city  in the world  since the 1640 s, when fewer  than 1 ,000  total  residents  spoke  more_than  15  languages .
Between  1880  and 1919 , more_than  23  million  Europeans  immigrated  to the United_States .
At_least  17  million  of them disembarked  in New_York . 
No one knows  how many remained  there , but as  early  as 1880 , more_than  half  the city  working  population  was  foreignborn , providing  New_York  with the largest  immigrant  
labor_force  on earth .
In 1990  nearly  16  percent  of the state  total  population  had been born  abroad , and many of them resided  in New_York_City .
By the late  1990 s, more_than  120  languages  were spoken  in New_York_city  schools , and there were  dozens  of ethnic  churches , political  organizations , cultural  festivals  and parades , as well as scores  of foreign language  newspapers , magazines ,  television  and radio_stations .
Although rivalries  among the various  groups  could be  intense , the very  diversity  of the city  permitted  immigrants  to mingle  more  easily  than in most  other  parts  of the nation .
The  Sage State ,  Sagebrush State ,  Casino , Nevada  is named  for Sierra_Nevada  range ; in Spanish , Nevada  means  "snow ," or "snowy ," while sierra  means  "mountains ".
Nevada  is  the driest  state , with an overall  average  annual  rainfall  of only  about  7  inches .
The wettest  part  of Nevada  receives  about  40  inches  a year , while the driest  averages  less_than  4  inches .
Summer  temperatures  are  hottest  in parts  of southern  Nevada , while winters  can be  extremely  cold  in western  and northern  Nevada .
With mostly  mountainous  and desert  terrain , altitudes  vary  from 1 ,000  feet  to over 13 ,000  feet .
Climate  is  arid , abundant  sunshine ; light  rainfall ; snow . 
Average  temperature  varies  from 70  degrees_Fahrenheit  in south  to 45  degrees_Fahrenheit  in north .
 :109 : There were  many  Spanish  explorers  in the 1770 s who came  near the Nevada  area , but it wasn't until 50  years  later  that fur  traders  venturing  into the Rocky Mountains  publicized  the region .
Nevada  first  settlement  was  Genoa, near Carson_City , settled  by Mormons  in 1849 , then  called  Mormon  Station .
Nevada  name  was adopted  in 1861  when the territory  was established . 
The name  was derived  from the Spanish  language , meaning  "snowcapped ".
 :112 : Nevada  was admitted  as part  of Utah  Territory  in 1854  and then  as the Territory  of Nevada  on March  2 , 1861 .
