The Grand_Canyon_State  or  Copper State , Arizona  takes  its name  from the Indian  word  Arizonac, meaning  "little  spring " or "young  spring ".
Arizona  clean , clear , dry  air  and warm  weather  attracts  older  people  looking_for  a retirement  home  as well as people  with respiratory  health  problems .
The state  population  has tripled  in the last  thirty  years .
Today , one  out of three  Arizonans  live  in booming  Phoenix  and Tucson .
National_Parks  & Monuments  in Arizona  include  Canyon  de Chelly, Casa Grande Ruins , Chiricahua, Hohokam Pima, Montezuma Castle , Navajo, Organ Pipe, Petrified  Forest , Pipe Spring , Rainbow, Saguaro/Sunset Crater , Tonto, Tuzigoot, Walnut Canyon , Wupatki, Saguaro , Grand_Canyon , and Petrified  Forest .
Arizona  was  the scene  of some of the last  and fiercest  fighting  of the Indian  wars .
Born  near the headwaters  of Arizona  Gila_River  in the mid  1820 s, Goyathlay ('One  Who Yawns ') was  a peaceful  man  who was transformed  into a warrior  when his family  was massacred  by Mexicans .
During a charge  against his enemies , frightened  Mexicans  began  to scream  'Geronimo !' the name  of their patron_saint  (Jerome , in English ). Goyathlay's men  began  calling  him Geronimo .
Cochise  also  developed  a hatred  of Americans  after they killed  members  of his family . Cochise , Geronimo , and Mangas Coloradas became  three  of the most  famous  Indian  warriors .
While the Civil_War  was beginning  far  away  to the east , Cochise , Geronimo , and Mangas Coloradas were attacking  travelers  and soldiers  and raiding  stagecoaches , ranches , and small  settlements  in the Southwest  and Mexico .
Pursued  by thousands  of U.S.  and Mexican  soldiers , Cochise  finally  surrendered  in 1872 , Geronimo  in 1886 .
Today , Arizona  is  home  to one of the largest  Indian  populations  in the U.S. , with twenty  reservations  hosting  more_than  fourteen  tribes , including  Navaho , Mohave , Apache , Hopi , Paiute , Papago, Pima , Maricopa , Yavapa, Hualapai , and Havasupai .
The region  was ruled  by Spain  until Mexico  won  its independence  in 1821  and then  Mexico  ruled  it until 1848 
Acquired  by U.S. , the territory  north  of the 
Gila_River  (including  much of present  New_Mexico ) was ceded  to the U.S.  in 1848 , when the Treaty  of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended  the Mexican_War .
Later , the U.S.  wanted  to build  a railroad  through the area  south  of the Gila_River  and purchased  the area  between the river  and the southern  boundary  of Arizona  from Mexico  in the Gadsden Purchase  in 1853 .
Arizona  was made  a separate  territory  in 1863 , and more  lands  were acquired  through the Gadsden Purchase  in 1853 .
Beehive_State , Mormon_State ,  Land of the Saints ,  Salt Lake State , Utah  was named  either for the Ute  tribe , whose name  means  'people  of the mountains ' or the the Navajo , who the White  Mountain  Apache  referred  to as 'Yuttahih'.
National_Parks  & Monuments  of Utah  are  Arches, Bryce Canyon , Canyonlands, Capitol Reef , Zion, Cedar Breaks, Dinosaur, Grand Staircase   Escalante, Hovenweep, Natural Bridges , Rainbow Bridge , and Timpanogos Cave .
Fleeing  the religious  persecution  encountered  in eastern  and middle western  states , the Mormons  reached  the Great_Salt_Lake  in 1847  and began  to build  the Salt_Lake_City .
The U.S.  acquired  the Utah  region  in the treaty  ending  the Mexican_War  in 1848  and the first  transcontinental  railroad  was completed  with the driving  of a golden  spike  at Promontory Summit  in 1869 .
Most  Asians  and blacks  lived  in 
metropolitan  areas ; many of the Native_Americans , mostly  of the Navajo , Ute , Gosiute, or Shoshone  peoples , live  on reservation  land .
The large  Uintah and Ouray Reservation  lies  entirely  within Utah , and portions  of the Navajo  and Ute  Mountain  reservations  extend  into the state .
 Big Sky Country ,  Bonanza State  and Treasure_State , Montana  is  a Latinized  Spanish  word  meaning  "mountainous ".
On January  23 , 1916 , residents  of Browning saw  the temperature  plummet  exactly  100  degrees , from 44  degrees  above zero  to 56  degrees  below zero .
The climate  is  dry , and cold_spells  are frequently  interrupted  by Chinook_winds  (warm  Pacific  winds  that gather  in the high  Rockies  and tunnel  their way  through  mountain_passes ) that can raise  temperatures  dramatically  in a few  hours . 
Montana  scenic  beauty  and vast  empty  spaces  have made  tourism  the second  biggest  industry .
Native_Americans  inhabited  Montana  when Europeans  first  explored . 
It includes  the Sioux , Cheyenne , Blackfoot , Shoshone , Arapaho , Kootenai, and the Flathead.
The Battle_of_the_Little_Bighorn , probably  the most  famous  battle  of all of North  America  "Indian  wars ," was fought  in southeastern  Montana  in 1876 .
The Lewis  & Clark  expedition  crossed  Montana  in 1805  on their historic  trek  to the Pacific_Ocean .
Francois Antoine Laroque and his North West Company  of Canada  explored  the Yellowstone_River  in 1805 .
The first  trading_post  in Montana  was established  at the mouth  of the Bighorn  in 1807  by a trading  expedition  that Manuel Lisa led  up  the Missouri  from St._Louis .
Much of the region  was acquired  by the U.S.  from France  as part  of the Louisiana_Purchase  in 1803 .
The Oregon Treaty  signed  with Great_Britain  on June  15 , 1846  gave  the United_States  sole  claim  to Oregon  country  south  of the 49 th  parallel , which included  the present  states  of Washington , Oregon , Idaho , and northwestern  Montana .
The Montana  Territory  ( resections  of Oregon , Washington , Nebraska , Dakota , and Idaho ) became  the 41 st  State  to unite  under America  on November  8 , 1889 .
The steady  stream  of hopeful  prospectors  from the East  and Midwest  increased  the number  to 20 ,595  in 1870 , the year  of the first  census .
Later  the silver  and copper  mines  drew  Irish , Cornish , and many  other  immigrants  to Butte .
With the settlement  of the eastern  section  by northern  European  and Slavic  groups , most  parts  of the state  were occupied  and the population  reached  548 ,889  in 1920 .
The  Cowboy State , Equality_State ,  Big Sky , Wyoming  was named  from two  Delaware  Indian  words  mecheweamiing, which are translated  'at the big  flats ' (large  plains ).
The Crow  hunted  in the lush  grasslands  of northeastern  Wyoming  until they were pushed  westward  into the mountains  by the Sioux .
The Sioux  and other  tribes  were greatly  troubled  by the increasing  numbers  of explorers  and settlers  who entered  the region  after  the_Civil_War , especially  after  the opening  of the 
Bozeman  Trail  in 1864 .
French  trappers  and explorers  may have reached  the area  in the middle  to late  18 th  century .
The first  documented  visit  was  by a U.S.  citizen  and fur  trapper , John Colter, who passed_through  Montana  with the Lewis  and Clark  expedition , then  returned  to explore  the Yellowstone  country  in 1807 .
The overland  party  crossed  through Teton Pass  in 1811  en_route  to found  Astoria, Oregon .
Robert Stuart returned  from Astoria and pioneered  the Oregon  Trail  through Wyoming  in 1812 13 .
Brigham_Young  led  the first  party  of Mormons  across Wyoming  in 1847 , and thousands  of people  crossed  Wyoming  mountain_passes  as part  of the California  gold_rush  of 1849 .
Portions  of what is  now  Wyoming  were  at one  time  claimed  by Spain , France , and England , though none of them established  much of a presence  there .
The_Evergreen_State , Washington  was named  after  President  George_Washington  by an eastern  politician .
The Pacific_Ocean  moderates  Western  Washington  climate , which is  generally  mild , with rainy  winters  and little  snow  in the lowlands .
Eastern  Washington  gets  much  hotter  in summer  and colder  in winter .
Two of the most  important  elements  encouraging  European  exploration  of the Northwest  were  competition  between European  nations  and the search  for the Northwest_Passage , an inland  water  route  linking  the Atlantic  and Pacific  Oceans .
The Spanish  and the English  were  the first  to venture  up the northwest  coast  of the Pacific_Ocean .
Spain , which had become  the wealthiest  European  nation  during the 16 th  century , saw  its wealth  decline  during the 17 th  century .
Spaniards  hoped  to reestablish  themselves through exploration  of the Northwest 
 In 1775  Spaniards  Bruno Heceta and Juan de la Bodega y Quadra sent  an expedition  to near presentday  Point Grenville and claimed  the land  in the name  of the king  of Spain .
In 1778  British  explorer  Captain_James_Cook  charted  the Washington  coast  and went  ashore  on Vancouver Island  at Nootka Sound .
Since both  the British  and Spanish  claimed  land  in the area , relations  between the two  countries  became  tense , so, in order to avoid  a war , they agreed  to respect   each other's commercial  activities  and settlements  in the region .
In 1792  Captain  George_Vancouver  of Britain  became  the first  European  to complete  a detailed  survey  of the Washington  coast  and the 
inland  waters .
Vancouver  named  many  Washington  landmarks , including  Mount  Rainier, Mount  Baker, and many of the San_Juan  Islands .
Vancouver  named  Puget_Sound  after the officer  who first  sighted  it, Peter Puget.
Also  in 1792 , as Vancouver  charted  the Washington  coast  and inland  waters , American  captain  Robert_Gray , a fur  trader  from Boston , explored  the mouth  of the Columbia_River .
After  the United_States  acquired  the Louisiana  Territory  from France  in 1803 , President  Thomas_Jefferson  commissioned  explorers  Meriwether_Lewis  and William_Clark  to explore  the West  (see  Lewis  and Clark  Expedition ).
The two  explorers , instructed  to take  special  note  of the geography  and vegetation  of the West , traveled  down the Columbia_River  and reached  the Pacific_Coast  in 1805 .
Washington  contains  more_than  20  
Native_American  reservations , including  one of the largest  in the country , belonging  to the Yakama peoples 
 Other  Native_American  groups  are  the Pend d'Oreille (Kalispel), Spokane, and Makah.
Central  Kalimantan  is  one of the biggest  Provinces  in Indonesia  with an area  total  153564   km2   or onethird  from total  Kalimantan  Island , or equal  to Java  and Madura Island .
The central  area  of Central  Kalimantan  is  dense  and fertile  tropical  forest , producing  valuable  commodities  such as rattan , resin  and the best  woods .
Central  Sulawesi  Province  is  a beautiful  region  with its mountain ; lakes  and dales  decorate  this area .
The fascination  of main  tourism  in Central  Sulawesi  is  megalith   omission  area  of historic  epoch , which is  in Bada and Besoa; however , the natural  beauty  and sociability  of its public  become  valuable  assets  for tourism  expansion  in this area .
Central  Sulawesi  is  one  region  in Indonesia  that has  compatible  solidarity  between natural  beauties , cultural  properties  and a long  history .
Central  Sulawesi  Province  was formed  with the constitution  number  13  in 1964 , lying  between 20 °  22 ' North  Latitude  and 30 ° 48 ' South  Latitude  and 119 ° 22 ' East  Longitudes .
Administratively , Central  Sulawesi  Province  is divided  into eight   regencies  and one  town  with 85  Districts  and 432  villages , with the number  of residents  being  2 .215 .449  people  and the average  population  density  being  29  persons / Km2  .
While the percentage  of residents   of Central  Sulawesi  Province  who reside  in the settlement  area  of the hinterland  is  30 %, that of coastal  area  is  60 % and of archipelago  area  is  10 %.
East  Kalimantan  is  the widest  province  in Indonesia : broadly ,  the region  is  about  245237 ,80   Km2   or about  one_half  of Java  Island  and Madura or 11  % from Indonesia  total  wide  region .
East  Kalimantan  residents , in 2004 , amount  to 2 .750 .369  men .
In 2005  East  Kalimantan  residents  are predicted  to amount  to 2 .8  million  men .
East  Java  is  located  on the eastern  part  of Java  Island  and also  includes  Madura and Bawean islands .
East  Java  has  a variety  of attractions , from temple  sites  to scenic  beaches , a sand  sea , highland lakes , volcanoes , marine  gardens  and wildlife  reserves .
Magnificent  mountain  scenery  include  the crater  and sea  of sand  at Mount  Bromo, the "sulfur  mountain " Welirang and rugged  Lien Plateau .
Little  of the former  glory  of Majapahit Empire , still  stands  in East  Java  today  with the exception  of temple  ruins  and some  archaeological  discoveries .
East  Java  claim  to fame  in modern  history  is  its vanguard  role  in the struggle  for independence  against colonial  forces  in 1945 .
The administrative  center  of East  Java  is  located  in Surabaya, the second  largest  city  in Indonesia  and a major  industrial  center  and port .
East  Java  economy  is  based  on agriculture , fishery , oil_industries , coffee , mangoes  and apples .
Connected  with the rest  of Java  by good  
motor roads and train  services , there are  also  air  services  between Surabaya and other  major  cities  in the country  including  Bali  which is  only  half  an hour  flight  away .
Madura Island , famous  for its bull  races , is  part  of the province  of East  Java , though it has  its own  traditions  and language .
Fossilized  remains  of prehistoric  animals  and the site  of the Java_man  at Trinil, Ngawi, will  tantalize  the archaeologist , as well as numerous  temple  ruins  dating  from the 7 th  century  AD .
The width  of East  Java  area  is  47 ,921   sq km . 
Twothirds  of the area  is  mountainous  with approximately  48  mountains .
The highest  peak , Mount  Semeru is  the highest  in Java  while the Brantas (314  km ) and Bengawan Solo (540  km ) are  the two  big  rivers .
East  Java  is  located  between 5 o 37 ' and 8 o 48 ' South  Latitude  and between 110 ° 54 ' and 115 ° 57 ' East  Longitude .
East  Java  tropical  climate  means  that October  to April  is  the wet  season , and May  to September  is  the dry  season  with an average  temperature  of 20 30  C  but the rainfall  in East  Java  is  relatively  low , an average  of 2 ,000  mm  per year . 
East  Java  province  consists  of various  communities  such as Javanese  and Maduranese with their culture , tradition  and customs .
Angklung: An ensemble  of bamboo  instruments  is  quite  popular  in Banyuwangi.
Gandrung Dance : A classical  dance  dedicated  to Dewi Sri, the goddess  of rice  is  also  popular  in Banyuwangi as_well .
Bull  Race  (Karapan Sapi): a regular  attraction  at the stadium  of Pamekasan, Madura.
Labuhan Sesaji: a  thanksgiving  ceremony  held  by fishermen  of Muncar, Banyuwangi, and Suro.
Reyog Trance  Dance : traditional  Ponorogo dance  with 15  dancers  wearing  peacock feather  headdresses  and tiger  mask .
Tayub Dance : a popular  social  dance  from Nganjuk, 120  km  southwest  of Surabaya. 
This dance  is  usually  performed  at wedding  parties  or other  celebratory  gatherings  where the dancers  use  their scarfs  to invite  guests  to join  them.
East  Nusa Tenggara Islands  have been shaped  by the power  and force  of an enormous  chain_of_mountains  and volcanoes , which begins  from the North  of Sumatra  and stretches  east  across Java .
The East  Nusa Tenggara province  consists  of over 550  islands , but is dominated  by the three  main  islands  of Flores, Sumba, and Timor .
Occupying  a unique  position  at the junction  of Australian  and Asian  submarine  ridges  marked  by the Wallace Line , East  Nusa Tenggara is  one of the world  most  dynamic  and exotic  marine  environments  with nearly  every  species  of coral  and tropical  fish  represented .
The arid  landscape  of eastern  and southeastern  Nusa Tenggara is  the result  of hot , dry  winds  blasting  in from the Australian  continent .
Flores is  a Portuguese  name , which means  'flower ' and ideally  describes  the beauty  to be found  here .
This long  island  between Sumbawa and Timor  is crowded  with volcanoes  and mountains  dividing  it into several  distinct  regions  with individual  languages  and traditions .
Predominantly  Catholic  and heavily  influenced  by the Portuguese , there are  many  examples  of a strong  European  cultural  heritage  like eastern  procession  held  in Larantuka, and the royal  regalia  of the former  king  in Maumere.
