The main  characteristics  of these mountains  and islands  are  their steep  cliffs , large  caves  and dwarf  trees  growing  out of the rock  crevices , like those in PhangNga Bay .
 :2 : The island  group  is composed  of two  rocky , tree  covered  islets  Phi Phi Don and Phi Phi Le.
 :3 : Phi Phi Don, the larger  islet  to the north , is  well_known  for its fine  beaches  and coral  formations . 
 :: Above average tourist  facilities  and accommodations  are  available  along two  beautiful  curved  bays , namely  Ton Sai Bay  and Lodalam Bay .
 :4 : Several  shops  at Ton Sai can arrange  diving  and snorkeling  trips  around the island  or the nearby  islands   Ko Phi Phi Le, Ko Yung and Ko Mai Phai.
 :5 : About  2  kilometers  to the south  is  Phi Phi Le. 
Contrary  to Phi Phi Don, this islet  is  uninhabited  as there is  no  beach  area  as the island  descends  abruptly  into the sea  on all  sides  and it is  prohibited  by the administrative  body .
 :6 :  :6 : The main  attraction  is  a large  cave  about  3 .2   square kilometers  in size  known_as  Viking Cave  derived  from one of the numerous  drawings  on the wall  which resembles  a Viking  ship .
 :7 : Viking cave  has  a 10  to 15  metre  high  ceiling  which contains  many  ledges  inhabited  by thousands  of swallows , thus  a bird  nest  collection  demonstration  is  a regular  feature  of guided  tours . 
 :8 : Ao Maya and Ao Lo Sama  Phi Phi Islands'  scenic  coves  are  favorite  snorkeling  places  while the sea  around the islands , especially  the southern  part , which are  deep  and full  of coral  formations  are  popular  diving  spots .
 :9 : With its emerald  crystal_clear  sea , secluded  beaches , mountain  cliffs , colorful  coral  reefs  and undersea  life , Phi Phi is  a paradise  in the Andaman_Sea .
 :10 : The best  time  to visit  Phi Phi Islands  is  from November  to April , when the sea  is  calm .
 :11 : Ko Yung, an island  to the north  of Ko Phi Phi Don, has  a stony  beach  on the east  and small  sandy  beaches  amid valleys .
 :12 : Ko Yung island  is teeming  with diverse  colorful  coral_reefs .
 :13 : Ko Phai, another  island  to the north  of Ko Phi Phi Don and not_far  from Ko Yung, has  spectacular  beaches  in the north  and east  of the island .
 :14 : The bank  of coral_reefs  comprised  mainly  of antler corals stretches  from the north  to the south  of the island .
 :15 : Phi Phi Islands  which are  equidistant  to Phuket and Krabi Provinces  can be reached  by boat .
 :16 : Chao Fa Pier : Passenger  boats  leave  From Krabi, Chao Fa Pier  twice  daily  at 10  am  and 2 .30  p.m. . 
 The trip  takes  about  2 .30  hours .
 :17 :  :17 : Ao Nang: There is  one  express  boat  trip  leaving  daily  at 9  p.m.  taking  40  min .
 :18 : Many  tour  companies  in Phuket organize  one  day  trips  to Phi Phi Islands . 
Tickets  can be  obtained  from any  hotel .
 :19 :  :19 :  :19 : Apart from marine  sports , Krabi is  also  an ideal  place  for rock_climbing .
Lines  of sheer  limestone  cliffs  along Tham Phranang and Rai Le beaches  have challenged  thousands  of climbers  from all over the world  every  year .
 :21 : The levels  of difficulty  of the various  routes  vary , so even  the most  inexperienced  climbers  can experiment .
 :22 : Equipment , instruction  and guides  are  available  at most  lodgings  for Rock_climbing .
 :23 : Within the Sa Kaew compound  in Khao Thong  Subdistrict  forest  plantation  area  are  eight  small  natural  ponds  which is  currently  a major  recreational  area  for the local  residents .
 :25 : Sa Kaeo is  28  kilometers  from town  on the KrabiNai Sa route  (Highway  No.  4034 ).
 :26 : Susan Hoi features  a slab  formed  from a huge  number  of embedded  various  types  of mollusks  which can be  dated  to approximately  40  million  years  ago .
 :27 : This shell  graveyard  at Ban Laem Pho was  once  a large  freshwater  swamp , the habitat  of diverse  mollusks .
 :28 : With changes  on the surface  of the earth , seawater  flooded  the freshwater  swamp  and the limestone  elements  in the seawater  enveloped  the submerged  mollusks  resulting  in a homogenous  layer  of fossilized  mollusk  shells  forty  centimeters  thick  known_as  Shelley Limestone .
 :29 : With geographical  upheavals , the limestone  layer  is  now  distributed  in great  broken  sheets  of impressive  magnitude  on the seashore .
 :30 :  :29 : One of Thailand  unseen  highlights , Thale Waek is situated  along Ko Dam Khwan.
 :31 : As the tide  recedes , the sea  is gradually  separated  by the white  sand  and limestone  beach  that will appear  to amazingly  connect  the two  islands  at low_tide .
 :32 : The best  time  to visit  Thale Waek is  5  days  before  and after the full_moon  is  from December  to beginning  of May .
 :34 : To visit  Thale Waek, proceed  on Highway  No.  4034  from the city , then  turn  left  and follow  Highway  No.  4202  to Ao Nang.
 :35 : Tham Sadet is  a beautiful  cave  adorned  with stalactites  and stalagmites  and is  located  at Ban Nong Kok, Tambon Sai Thai , 7  kilometers  from town  on Highway  No.  4034 .
 :36 : "Sadet" means  visit , and the use  of the term  in the name  of the cave  refers  to the royal  visit  to the site  in 1909  by the King  Rama VI (at that time  the Crown_Prince ).
 :37 : The monastery  is  Krabi's central  temple  and a local  gathering  point  during Buddhist  events  and weddings .
 :38 : The main  attraction  in the central  temple  is  an impressive  reclining  Buddha  image .
 :39 : Wat Tham Suea, which literally  means  tiger  cave  temple , is  located  in the Khiriwong Valley  amidst lush  forests  and mountains  with large  trees  over a hundred  years  old  approximately  9  kilometers  northeast  of Krabi Town .
 :40 : Aside from being  the site  of a meditation  center , the compound  is  also  a place  of archaeological  and historical  interest  as excavations  have uncovered  stone  tools , pottery  remains  and Buddha  footprint  crafting  molds .
 :41 : In_addition , a cave  in the compound  has  what appears  to be  tiger  paw  prints  in the stone .
 :42 : Ranong is  the first  southern  province  on the western  coast , located  568  kilometres  from Bangkok .
 :43 : Ranong is  known_for  the long  rainy  period , which lasts  for 8  months  each  year .
 :44 : Ranong occupies  an area  of 3 ,298   square kilometres  and is bordered  by Myanmar  and the Indian_Ocean  to the west .
 :46 : Within  its compact  area , Ranong contains  various  natural  attractions  and is blessed  with hot_springs  and  unspoiled  mangrove  forests .
 :47 : A mountainous  and heavily  forested  province , Ranong is  best_known  as fishing  and trading  port .
 :48 : Ranong was settled  by the Hokkian Chinese , and their strong  influence  is  evident  in the town .
 :49 : Ranong town  is  a  gateway  to Myanmar , with colourful  longboats  ferrying  produce  and people  across the narrow  divide  that separates  the two  countries .
 :50 : The famous  hot_springs  are  just  outside of town , where an arboretum  and various  firstclass  hotels  cater  to visitors  eager  to benefit  from the medicinal  properties  of the mineral_water . 
 :51 : Satun is  a small  province  in the south  of Thailand  that borders  Malaysia , facing  the_Andaman_Sea .
 :52 : Satun province  possesses  renowned  picturesque  islands  with verdant  forests  and mountainous  land .
 :53 : Sutan is  located  973  kilometres  from Bangkok  and occupies  an area  of 2 ,478   square kilometres  with 80  kilometres  of coastline .
 :54 : Most  tourists  head_out  to the pristine  islands  of Tarutao National_Park .
 :55 : Taruatao National_Park  landscape  is   full_of  underwater  peaks , excellent  beaches , calm  and peaceful  coves , jungle  and mangrove  swamps .
 :56 : Snorkeling  can be found  at Lipe island , while neighbour  Adnag island  is  stunning  with forest , hills  and waterfalls .
 :57 : Around Satun, there  are  plenty  of interesting  sights , including  dove  farms , forest  parks  and huge  waterfall .
 :58 : Thale Ban National_Park  is  famous  for its abundant  wildlife , with many  waterfalls  and caves  worth  visiting .
 :59 : Trang located  approximately  828  kilometers  from Bangkok , Trang Province  covers  an area  of 4 ,941   square kilometers . 
 :60 : Trang province  borders  on Nakhon Si Thammarat Province  to the north , Satun Province  and the Indian_Ocean  (Andaman_Sea ) to the south , Phatthalung Province  to the east  and the Indian_Ocean and Krabi Province  to the west .
 :61 : Trang is considered  a magnificent  coastal  province  as its long , beautiful  coastline  stretches  199  kilometers  along the Indian_Ocean. 
 :62 : In_addition , Trang province  has  two  major  rivers  flowing  through it, the Trang River , which originates  in the Khao Luang Mountain_Range and Maenam Palian from the Banthat Mountain_range .
 :63 : Despite the fact  that Trang City  plays  a key  role  in facilitating  trade  and communications  to Nakhon Si Thammarat, Thailand  southern  commercial  hub , Trang is  a province  less  traveled_to  by tourists .
 :64 : It was only  recently  that Trang has been   poised  to establish  itself on the international  travel  map .
 :65 : Trang has  geographical  advantages  similar  to that of Krabi and PhangNga.
 :66 : Trang includes  breathtaking  islands  and astounding  beaches  along the coast  as well as aweinspiring  inland  limestone  propped  mountains .
 :67 : Trang province  consists  of an archipelago  in the Andaman_Sea  with over 46  islands ; of these, 12  are  in  Amphoe  Kantang, 13  in  Amphoe  Palian and 21  in  Amphoe  Sikao.
 :68 : Trang has  both  mainland  beaches  and a whole  string  of offshore  islands .
 :69 : For visitors  interested  in light  adventure  activities  such as cruising  coastal  waters , visiting  notable  sights  such as the enchanting  Emerald Cave , which is accessible  only  by water , will prove  to be  remarkable  experience  in Trang.
 :70 : Additional  attractions  include  the Mu Ko Petra National_Park  with beaches  and islands  lapped  by the warm  waters  of the Andaman_Sea. 
 :71 : There are  also  wildlife  sanctuaries  such as Namtok Khao Chong and Khlong Lamchan Park  with waterfalls , nature  trails  and caves  in Trang province . 
 :72 : For those looking_for  a relaxed , tranquil  ambience , Trang is  a perfect  place  to unwind  amidst stunning  scenery .
 :73 : With an abundance  of blissful  attractions  mixed  with cultural  heritage , Trang Province  is  truly  an emerging  fascinating  tourist  destination  with numerous  jungles , mountains  and waterfalls .
 :74 : The City  also  has  numerous  attractions . 
 :775 : Walking  around Trang City , visitors  will be  amazed  at the mixture  of Western , Chinese  and Thai  cultures  reflected  in the architecture  that range  from the  Sino Portuguese  shop  houses  to the Chinese  temples  and shrines .
 :75 : The PanYa House  is  the local  style  of houses  in Trang, which offers  an insight  into the architectural  heritage  of Trang town .
 :76 : Trang or Muang Thap Thiang used to be  a port  engaged  in foreign  trade .
 :77 : Trang was  the first  city  where rubber  was  planted  after Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi brought  it from Malaysia  in 1899 .
 :78 : Trang has  a total  area  of 4 ,941   square kilometers  and is divided  into 10  districts  ( Amphoe ) and 1   subdistrict  (King Amphoe);  Amphoe  Muang,  Amphoe  Kantang,  Amphoe  Huai Yot,  Amphoe  Yan Ta Khao,  Amphoe  Palian,  Amphoe  Sikao,  Amphoe  Wang Wiset,  Amphoe  Na Yong,  Amphoe  Ratsada, and King  Amphoe  Hat Samran.
 :80 : The best  time  to visit  Trang is  between  December  and May .
 :81 : As it is located  on the same  coastline  as Phuket and Krabi Provinces , Trang Province  is  also  influenced  by the monsoon .
 :82 : The temperature  of Trang province  is  generally  warm  all  year  round  with an average  temperature  varying  from 20  degree_Celsius  to 36  degree_Celsius .
 :83 : In April , the daytime  temperature  of Trang is  highest  and it is  also  the hottest  period  of the year .
 :84 : In Trang the rainy_season,  which is  from May  to September , has  rains  and short  downpours  during the daytime .
 :85 : The monsoon_period  comes  in Trang, from September  to November  and then  from December  onwards  the weather  generally  becomes  more  pleasant .
 :86 : Khao Pina unique  mountain  is  hollow  all_the_way  to the top  resembling  an overturned  pan .
 :87 : At the foot  of the mountain  is  Wat Khao Pina, a temple  where a reclining  Buddha  image  is enshrined  at the cave  entrance .
 :88 : Khao Pina mountain  is  in Tambon Na Wong, 45  kilometers  from the city  on Phetkasem Road , there  is  a 2  kilometer  road  which branches_out  from there  to the mountain .
 :89 : Namtok Ton Te waterfall  is  located  45  kilometers  from the city . 
Originating  in the Banthat Mountain_Range , the waterfall  drops  320  meters  down  to the rocks .
 :90 :  :90 : To reach  Namtok Ton Te waterfall , take  TrangPhatthalung Road  for about  17  kilometers , turn  right  onto the Ban KachongBan Hat Lao Road  (Highway  No.  4124 ) for about  27  kilometers  and finally  make  a left  turn  and proceed  for another 1  kilometer 
 :91 : Thale Song Hong (lake  of Two  Rooms ) located  to the northwest  of the province  is  a large  lake  surrounded  by limestone  hills . 
 :92 : A mountain  in the middle  of the lake  divides  it in half  resulting  in the name  Thale Song Hong.
 :93 : With an awesome  view , crystal_clear  water  which allows  perfect  viewing  of the many  fishes  underneath , the lake  is  a perfect  spot  for fun  and relaxation .
 :94 : Thale Song Hong is  in Tambon Bang Di, 8  kilometers  from the district  center .
 :95 : To get_to  Thale Song Hong, take  Phetkasem Road  (HuaiYotKrabi) to Ban Phraek, then  turn  right  and proceed  for 12  kilometers .
 :96 : Thale Song Hong National  Boy_Scouts_ Camp  is  situated  near Thale Song Hong in Tambon Bang Di.
 :97 : Covering  an area  of 2 ,080   square kilometers , Thale Song Hong National  Boy_Scouts  Camp  was established  by the Department  of Physical_Education .
 :98 : Thale Song Hong National  Boy_Scouts  Camp  provides  meeting  and seminar  rooms  and other  facilities  for boy  scouts  around the country .
 :99 : At Tham Khao Kop (Khao Kop Cave ) a canal  from the Banthat Mountain_Range  is  divided  into 3  waterways  upon reaching  Khao Kop, with 2  going  around the mountain  and the other  flowing  through the cave  under the mountain .
 :100 : An amazing  natural  wonder , the main  attraction  at Khao Kop is  this stream  which flows  through the cave .
 :101 : In_addition , the cave  itself looks  like  a high  and steep  cliff  with layers  of rocks  and stalactites  and stalagmites  magnificently  decorating  the cave  for a distance  of approximately  4  kilometers .
 :102 : Currently , the Khao Kop Tambon Administration  Organization  provides  rowboats  to facilitate  visitors'  exploration  of the cave .
 :103 : The cave  is  located  in Mu 1 , Tambon Khao Kop, approximately  7  kilometers  from the District  Office  on Phetkasem Road .
 :104 : Upon arriving  at the kilometer  7  marker , turn  left  onto a 700  meter  road  that leads  to the site .
