Chao Mai Cave   Chao Khun Cave  is  a stalagmite /stalactite  cave  in To Nae Mountain , near Ban Chao Mai.
 :2 : A small  rowboat  can take  travelers  to explore  the cave  and proceed  through  to a verdant  mangrove  forest .
 :3 : Hat Yao is  a long  beach  that extends  from a sharks  fin  shaped  mountain  to the north . 
Located  at Mu 6  in Tambon Ko Libong, the beach  is dotted  with lovely   sea pines  and is  therefore  very  suitable  for camping .	
 :4 :  :4 : Situated  on the way  to Chao Mai Beach , Hat Yong Ling and Hat San are  curved  beaches  that run  parallel  to a pine  forest .
 :5 : At the end  of the beach  is  a high  mountain  with niches , caves  and a passageway  to a cliff  with more  caves  and rocks , similar  to a fortress  encircling  sand_dunes .
 :6 : Thailand  hot_springs  are  not  located  only  in the northern  region , but also  in the south . At Mu 7 , Tambon Bo Nam Ron, the hot_spring  is  accessible  via a road  from Kantang (kilometer  10  marker ).
 :7 : Khuan Tamnak Chan Public  Park  is  located  approximately  24  kilometers  from the city .
 :8 : Encompassing  an area  of 250  rai, Khuan Tamnak Chan Public  Park  offers  spectacular  surroundings  and a magnificent  view  of the sea  and Kantang District .
 :9 : Having been developed  to grow  large  trees  and decorative  plants , the park  is  equipped  with tourist  facilities  that include  resting  pavilion  and a parking_lot .
 :10 : Ko Chueak  Ko Waen: Small  islands  between Ko Muk and Ko Kradan, the islands  are blessed  with amazingly  colorful  shallow  and deep  water  corals  that are  the habitat  of many  types  of fish .
 :11 : Visitors  can take  boats  from Pak Meng Pier  to the islands : boats  leave  regularly  on the same  route  as to Ko Muk and Ko Kradan.
 :12 : One of the most  beautiful  islands  in Trang, Ko Kradan is  located  about  40  minutes  by boat  from the mainland .
 :13 : With an area  of 600  rai (240  acres ), most of the island  belongs  to Hat Chao Mai National_Park .
 :14 : The island  offers  good  restaurants  and accommodations  for tourists .
 :15 : The most  striking  feature  of Ko Kradan is  its powdery , white  beach  and crystal_clear  water  that permits  a great  view  of the coral_reef  underneath .
 :16 : The reef  stretches  from Ko Kradan beach  's  northern  end  to the coast .
 :17 : A variety  of colorful  fish  inhabit  the shallow  water  corals  making  the site  perfect  for snorkeling .
 :18 : Ko Kradan is  to_the_west  of Ko Muk and Ko Libong and from Pak Meng Pier  visitors  can take  a 1 .5 hour  boat  trip  to Ko Kradan.
 :19 : There is  one  resort  on Ko Kradan providing  rooms  and bungalows  as well as major  resort  facilities .
 :20 : Ko Libong, Trang 's largest  island  is  located  in Tambon Libong and is  part  of the Libong Archipelago  Wildlife  Reserve  whose headquarters  are  located  here .
 :21 : With an area  of 40 ,000   square kilometers , Ko Libong, which is  a haven  for holidaymakers , has  many  fishing  villages  where most of the residents  are  Muslims .
 :22 : Ko Libong island  has  many  capes  and beaches  such as Tup Beach , Chu Hoi Cape , Thuat Cape  and To Chai Cape .
 :23 : At low_tide  visitors  can walk  across the beach  from Chu Hoi Cape  to Ko Tup where numerous  seabirds  and mangrove  birds  from colder  climates  congregate  during their migration .
 :24 : Around the island  are  masses  of seaweed  where rare  herds  of manatees  can be seen . 
 :25 : It is  also  the home  of a variety  of native  and migratory  birds  that are  most  abundant  in winter .
 :26 : From Ko Libong, visitors  can get  a good  view  of Ko Chao Mai and Chao Mai Cape .
 :27 : To reach  the island , take  a boat  that leaves  every  hour  at Hat Yao Ban Chao Mai Pier .
 :28 : The fare  for the 30  minute  trip  is  400  baht  per boat  and accommodations  are provided  on the island .
 :29 : Not  just  another  interesting  attraction , Ko Muk is  the most  outstanding  attraction  in the Trang Sea  and an ideal  destination  for tourists  enthralled  with nature .
 :30 : The island , which is  nearly  opposite  Hat Chang Lang on the mainland , has  impeccable  beaches  suitable  for swimming  and camping  and lovely  corals  around the island  that are  worth  exploring .
 :31 : In_addition , the island  is comprised  of high  and majestic  cliffs  facing  the sea  to the west , a fishing  village  on the east  facing  the mainland  and swallows  that make  the numerous  cliffs  their home .
 :32 : Hidden  in the jungle , among the cliffs  is  the awesome  Tham Morakot.
 :33 : The entrance  of the Emerald cave  is  a small  passage  on the islands  western  side  that is  accessible  by boat  during low_tide .
 :34 : Emerald cave  itself winds  for about  80  meters  to the other  exit , opening  onto a clean  white  beach  with an emerald  color  open  pool  which is surrounded  by high  cliffs .
 :35 : To see  real  fishermen ’s' daily  activities , visit  Ao Phangkha and the Muslim  fishing  village  of Kua Laem, located  at the southern  end  of the island .
 :36 : To get_to  Ko Muk, tourists  can take  a boat  from Pak Meng Pier  in Amphoe Sikao for the 40 minute  trip .
 :37 : Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Museum  is  a historical  site  where the former  ruler  of Trang, Phraya Ratsadanupradit, once  lived .
 :38 : Inside the two story  wooden  building  are  a wax_figure  of the former  ruler  and a complete  collection  of his daily  personal  items .
 :39 : Currently , the Na Ranong family  manages  Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Museum . 
 :40 : Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Museum  is  located  around 200  meters  from Kantang Municipality  at No.  1 , Khai Phithak Road , Tambon Kantang.
 :41 : Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Museum  is  open  to the public  every  day , except Mondays  (it is  open  on public_holidays  but closed  the following  day ).
 :42 : Phra Non Song Khrueang Manora:  This image  in death  posture  is enshrined  at Wat Phu Khao Thong, Mu 1 , Tambon Nam Phut, around  20  kilometers  from the city 
 :43 : The head  is  the most  distinctive  feature  of the image  as it is decorated  with a headdress  of the Nora dance  called  the Throet a holy  and royal  ornament  of Southern  Thailand  indigenous  dance  performance .
 :44 : Phra Srinagarindra Park  (Thung Nam Phut) is  located  3  kilometers  from the city  along Nam Phut Road  and on the right  of Tha Klang Road  is  a beautifully  landscaped  park  with a magnificent  view .
 :45 : Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Monument  was built  to commemorate  Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi, a former  ruler  of Trang Province  who introduced  and initiated  rubber  cultivation , which led  to the widespread  planting  of rubber  in southern  Thailand .
 :46 : A man  with long  vision, he was  instrumental  in the development  of Trang's infrastructure , agriculture , animal_husbandry , education  system  and laid_out  the structure of local  administration .
 :48 : The site  is  located  in Trang Municipal  Park , about  1  kilometer  from the Provincial  Hall  on the TrangPhatthalung route .
 :49 : Sa Kaphang Surin is  a natural  pool  of about  80 ,000  square_meters . 
Spanning  the pool  is  a concrete  bridge  connecting  the three  beautiful  pavilions  located  in the pool  center .
 :50 :  :50 : There is  a zoo  not_far  from Phraya Ratsadanupradit Monument  and this pool  is  located  in Trang Municipality , approximately  2  kilometers  from the Provincial  Hall  on Wian Kaphang Road .
 :51 : It is believed  that Tham Khao Sam Bat (Cave ) is  the place  where as  much  as three  alms bowls  full  of treasure  was  hidden .
 :52 : The cave  is   archaeologically  significant  as some  ancient  writing  was found  on the wall  of the cave .
 :53 :  Prince  Krom Phraya Narisara Nuwattiwong determined  that the writing  was  of the Ayutthaya period  (1709 1732  A.D. ).
 :55 : Some  ancient  pieces  of clay  pots , sea_shells  and stone  tools  were also  found  in 1980  by a team  of archeologists  from the Department  of Archeology , Silpakorn University  and in 1990 , a drawing  of what looks  like three  red  mountains  was discovered .
 :56 : Khao Chong Wildlife  Development  and Conservation  Promotion  Station , Thailand  first  nature  and wildlife  study  place , the Station  is covered  with large  trees , streams  and waterfalls  like Ton Yai, Ton Noi and Ka Chong.
 :57 : Its nature  study  trail  is  a walking  trail  that is  ideal  for studying  nature  
 up close , with signs  along the trail  providing  information  on the environment .
 :59 : The Museum  and Exhibition  Building  has  exhibitions  on nature  and natural_resource  conservation .
 :60 : The Station  is  located  approximately  21  kilometers  from the City  on the TrangPhatthalung Road .
 :61 : A large  swamp  in Khlong Lam Chan Waterfall  Park  is  home  to numerous  waterfowls  whose migration  period  is  from January  to March .
 :62 : The park  is  a peaceful  place  suitable  for relaxation , or even  overnight  camping .
 :63 : Khlong Lam Chan Waterfall  Park  is  in Khlong Lam Chan Wildlife  Reserve , 17  kilometers  from the city  on the TrangPhatthalung route , then  take  a right  turn  on the Ban Ka ChongBan Hat Lao Road  (Highway  No.  4124 ) and proceed  for about  1  kilometer .
 :64 : Namtok Ka Chong, a splendid  waterfall , which cascades  from a high  mountain  down a cliff  to rocks  below , is  a popular  spot  for local  residents .
 :65 : The waterfall  is  located  in Khao Chong Botanical  Park  on the TrangPhatthalung Road  in Amphoe Na Yong, some  7  kilometers  from the District  Office .
 :66 : Tham Khao Chang Hai cave , which is  the site  of heavenly  made  stalagmites  and stalactites  in various  shapes , is  5  kilometers  from Amphoe Na Yong Market  in Ban Na Muen Si.
 :67 : Ko Sukon island  is  a Tambon in Palian District , only  3  kilometers  from the shore  via the TrangPalian Road  (Highway  No.  404 ).
 :68 : The island  has  many  charming  and quiet  beaches  which are  ideal  for relaxation .
 :69 : Ko Sukon island  is  a place  where visitors  can see  both  rice  fields  and  rubber tree  plantations  in tiny  villages .
 :70 : Ko Sukon is  renowned  in the province  for its delicious  watermelons , which is harvested  in March  and April .
 :71 : To reach  the island , take  a bus  on TrangPalian route  or a van  from Amphoe Muang for approximately  35  kilometers  and board  a ferry  for a 40 minute  crossing  at Tha Kham Pier  in Palian.
 :72 : Ferries  leave  twice  daily  at 10 .00  am  and 2 .00  p.m. . 
Alternatively , visitors  can board  a boat  at Tase Pier  in King Amphoe Hat Samran.
 :73 :  :73 : To reach  this pier  take  Highway  No.  404 , turn  right  at Ban Na intersection  and proceed  for approximately  18  kilometers  and turn  left  and proceed  for approximately  7  kilometers .
 :74 : The total  traveling  time  of Ko Sukon is  20 30  minutes  and the rented  boat  costs  500  baht  for 10  people ; accommodations  on the island  are  available .
 :75 : As the majority  of the inhabitants  of the island  are  Muslim , please  remember  to dress  properly  while spending  time  there as a gesture  of respect  to the local  residents .
 :76 : Mu Ko Phetra National_Park , this marine  national_park , which is  located  in Amphoe Palian and Amphoe Langu in Satun, was proclaimed  a national_park  on 31  December , 1994 .
 :77 : Comprising  islands  such as Ko Phetra, Ko Khao Yai, Ko Lanti, Ko Lidi, Ko Bulon, Ko Laoliang, and Ko Praoma, the park  is  accessible  from Pak Bara Pier  in Satun.
 :78 : The most  suitable  time  to visit  the National_Park  is  from December  to April .
 :79 : Tourist  accommodations  are  available  near the park  headquarters .
 :80 : Namtok Ton Te waterfall  is  located  45  kilometers  from the city .
 :81 : Originating  in the Banthat Mountain_Range , the waterfall  drops  320  meters  down  to the rocks .
 :82 : The waterfall  is  accessible  by car  throughout the year .
 :83 : To reach  the waterfall , take  TrangPhatthalung Road  for about  17  kilometers , turn  right  onto the Ban KachongBan Hat Lao Road  (Highway  No.  4124 ) for about  27  kilometers  and finally  make  a left  turn  and proceed  for another  1  kilometer .
 :84 : Namtok Ton Tok waterfall  and Nam Tok Ton Te, which are  located  1  kilometer  apart  from each other, are  connected  by a walking  trail .
 :85 : With streams  flowing  through large  and small  rocks , Ton Tok waterfall  offers  a great  view  of Ton Tae waterfall .
 :86 : Hat Chao Mai National_Park , which was proclaimed  a marine  national_park  on 14  October , 1982 , covers  the 2  districts  of Kantang and Sikao.
 :87 : The park  headquarters  is  situated  at Chang Lang Beach  in Tambon Mai Fat, approximately  47  kilometers  from the city .
 :88 : Hat Chao Mai has  a 20 kilometer  coastline  and a 5 kilometer  long  white  sandy  beach  which is  set  against shady  casuarinas  and limestone  hills  with caves .
 :89 : Most  caves  are  of historical  importance  as prehistoric  human  remains  are found .
 :90 : Land based  attractions  of the park  are  Pak Meng Beach , Chang Lang Beach , San Beach , Yao Beach , Yong Ling Beach , Chao Mai Beach  and Chao Mai Cave . 
All are  easily  accessible  by car .
 :91 :  :91 : The park  also  features  the Marine  Natural Study  Center  (tel. 0 7521 0664 ) and the Tourist  Service  Center .
 :92 : In the national_park , endangered  dugong  can be spotted  along with rare  blacknecked_stork .
 :93 : More  common  wildlife  includes  macaques , langurs , wild  pigs , pangolins ,  pacificreef egrets , etc. .
 :94 : To reach  the park , take  the TrangSikaoPak Meng Road  (Highway  No. 4162 ) for 40  kilometers  and then  7  kilometers  more  on a road  that runs  parallel  to the beach  to the park  headquarters .
 :95 : Hat Pak Meng, the beautiful  and peaceful , 5 kilometer  long  beach  resembles  a crescent  moon  and is  fringed  by a lovely  pine  forest .
 :96 : Local  residents  of Trang and people  from nearby  provinces  like  to come  here  to relax  and sample  the spicy  seafood .
 :97 : Boats  from Pak Meng Pier  takes  visitors  to Ko Ngai and other  islands  close by.
 :98 : The beach  is  located  at Mu 4 , Tambon Mai Fat, 38  kilometers  from the city  on the TrangSikaoPak Meng Road  (Highway  No.  4046 4162 ).
 :99 : Ko Ngai or Ko Hai is  an island  that is  actually  in Amphoe Ko Lanta of Krabi. 
However , it is classified  as a tourist  destination  in the Trang Sea  because access  is  easier  from Trang.
 :100 :  :100 : The island  has  a white  beach , clear  waters  and is surrounded  by magnificent  corals .
 :101 : A boat  trip  from Pak Meng Pier  to Ko Ngai or Ko Hai takes  about  an hour .
 :102 : A 10 person  capacity  boat  can be rented  at the cost  of 1 ,500  baht ; for 20  to 40  persons  the price is 6 ,000 10 ,000  baht .
 :103 : Accommodations  are  available  on Ko Ngai or Ko Hai island .
