Various  insects  and plant  species  are also  found  widely  in Malaysia  rich  ecology .
For those new  to jungle  trekking , the Forest Reserve Institute  of Malaysia  (FRIM) in Kepong, Kuala_Lumpur , and The Malaysia Agriculture Park  at Taman Bukit Cahaya in Shah Alam, Selangor and the Air Keroh Recreational Forest  in Malacca are  good  places  to learn  the basics  of the skill .
Seasoned  trekkers  can choose  more  rigorous  trekking  trails  at the national_parks  and forest  reserves .
These include  Taman Negara in Pahang (one of Asia  finest  preserved  wild_lands ), Niah, Mulu and Lambir National_Parks  in Sarawak , Danum Valley  in Sabah  and EndauRompin in Johor.
The best  time  to trek  in Peninsular  Malaysia  is  during the dry_season , from March  till October  and Nov  to June , in Sabah  and Sarawak .
Some  parks  and forest  reserves  may require  permissions  or permits  before  allowing  trekkers  in . 
Please  refer  to your tourist  agent  to advise  you on this.
With almost  600  species  inhabiting  Peninsular  Malaysia  and about  580  species  in Borneo , Malaysia  is  a natural  attraction  for bird_watchers .
Due_to  the diversity  of the habitats , there are  many  places  with abundant  bird  life  to choose  from .
Many  birds  are  common  to both  geographic  areas , although some  species , known_as  endemic  species , are  unique  only  to a certain  location .
Birding  activities  are concentrated  in three  distinctive  habitat  types   montane  forests , lowland  rainforests  and mangroves .
Montane  forests  generally  occur  above an elevation  of around  2 ,952  feet , while lowland  rainforests  remain  the most  extensive  habitat  for over 200  species .
The Mangrove  forest  ecosystem  is  a coastal  habitat  where saltwater  and freshwater  environs  meet  with coastline  fringe .
Bird  life  abounds  at Fraser's Hill  and Cameron Highlands , which feature  lush  green  surroundings , panoramic  views  and hiking  trails .
Located  at a mangrove  swamp  along the west  coast , the park  supports 130  bird  species  and seasonal  migratory  birds .
Another  interesting  location , which may need  more  thorough  planning , is  Taman Negara  a dense  lowland  forest  that is  more_than  150  million  years  old  and home  to over 200  bird  species .
Migratory  birds  use  Malaysia  west  coast  flyway  to travel  to Sumatra  and beyond , with peak  movements  in April  and October .
Tanjung Tuan in Malacca is  a favored  spot  that attracts  bird_watchers  from all_over  the world , who hope  to catch_a_glimpse  of these birds .
The tropical  climate  of Malaysia  allows  bird_watching  to be  a year_round  activity .
Rain  usually  falls  heaviest  from September  to December  in the West  Coast  of the Peninsula  and from October  to February  in the East  Coast , Sabah  and Sarawak .
As  excited  as they are , bird_watchers  must show  utmost  care  and respect  to the birds  and their habitats  during bird_watching  sessions .
Permits  from Forestry  Department  of various  states_may be needed  at some  bird_sanctuaries .
Your travel_agent  or tour_guide  may be  able  to advise  you on this.
Hari Raya Aidil Adha marks  the conclusion  of the annual  pilgrimage  to Mecca .
Thaipusam is  a spectacular  festival  which occurs  in late  January  or early  February  and is  a celebration of  Lord  Subramaniam.
On the eve  of the Thaipusam festival , a statue  of the  Lord  is taken  on procession  in a chariot  drawn  by bullocks .
The next  day , devotees  carry  'kavadis' through  Hindu  temples  amidst chanting  and drumming .
A kavadi is  a metal  or wooden  arch  with elaborate  decorations , which is placed  on the devotee  shoulders .
Hooks  or spikes  from the kavadi are pierced  into parts  of the devotee  body .
The festival  is celebrated  on a large  scale  in Penang, Selangor and Perak.
Chinese  New_Year  is celebrated  over  a period  of 15  days , beginning  from the 1 st  day  of the Chinese  lunar_calendar .
Chinese  New_Year  is  a joyous_  occasion  marked  by family  reunions , giving  of red  packets , or 'ang pows,' by parents  to children  or among relatives .
This practice , coupled  with the giving_away  of mandarin_oranges,  is  a symbol  of prosperity  and good_luck  for the recipients .
The Chinese  New_Year  tradition  is said  to have originated  hundreds  of years  ago  when villagers  in a province  in China  were tormented  by a dragon .
To scare  it away , they decorated  the village  in bright  red  and lit  firecrackers .
As time  passed , the coming  of spring  was incorporated  into the celebration , hence  the name  'New_Year ,' signifying  the birth  of new  things .
The Chinese  New_Year  is  one of the biggest  celebrations  in Malaysia .
Falling  on a month  or_so  behind  the western  calendar , this festival  is celebrated  with pomp , grandeur  and ceremony  for almost  15  days .
Decorations  in most  Chinese  homes  include  young  blossoms  of cherries , plums  and bamboo , which symbolizes  rebirth  as well as flexibility  and endurance .
The New_Year  is seen  as a time  of abundant  food . 
The variety  and amount  of food  prepared  tops  any  other  holiday  time .
Among the delicacies  prepared  are  'nian gao', a sweet  glutinous  rice  pudding , crispy   love letters  made  from a batter , steamed  wheat  bread  called  'man tou' and little  meat  dumplings .
The Lunar  New_Year  is  also  a time  for families  to get_together .
A unique  Malaysian  contribution  to the local  Chinese  culture  is  the 'lau yee sang,' an exotic  dish  made_up  of raw  fish , vegetables  and colored  noodles .
Often , the gathered  family  mixes  and tosses  this dish  before  consuming  it, as a symbol  of unity  and joy .
Children  have  a wonderful  time  collecting  their bounties  in the form  of 'ang pow,' or red  packets  holding  monetary  presents .
Chinese  elders  usually  hand  these packets  out  to younger  family  members  and visiting  friends .
The mandatory  lighting  of fireworks  and firecrackers  bring_about  fun  and laughter  to both  the young  and elderly .
Thrilling  lion  dance  performances  can be observed  at homes , office_buildings and shopping  complexes .
The 'lion ' is believed  to bring  good_luck  and prosperity  with it wherever it goes .
The celebrations  go_on  for 15  days , during which prayers  are held  and offerings  of food  and incense  are made  to the gods  and dead  ancestors .
The celebrations  culminate  with the 'Chap Goh Mei' festival  on the 15 th  day  when colorful  lanterns  are lit  and unmarried  women  throw  oranges  into the sea  to invoke  blessings  in seeking  good  husbands .
As with most  festivals  in Malaysia  , people  of all  races  visit  their Chinese  friends  during this season  to convey  their good  wishes .
Open_houses  are also  held  by many  families , who open  their homes  to friends  and loved_ones .
The birthday  of Prophet  Muhammad , celebrated  on the 12 th  of the month  of Rabiulawal, is  another  important  occasion  in the Muslim  calendar .
It is marked  by special  prayers  and sermons  in mosques , followed  by processions  and feasts .
 Lord  Buddha  birth , enlightenment  and death  are celebrated  through various  events , including  the release  of caged  birds  to symbolize  the freeing  of captive  souls .
Most  Buddhists  observe  a vegetarian  diet  on this day  and in some  towns , like Penang, a procession  takes_place  at night .
The best  time  to visit  Sabah  and experience  this occasion  is  from May  30 th  to 31 st , when the Kadazan and Dusun communities  offer  
 thanksgiving  for a bountiful  harvest .
Highlights  include  a beauty  pageant , cultural  dances  and rituals  that culminate  in the  thanksgiving  ceremony  performed  by the 'Bobohizan,' or high  priestess .
With a wealth  of ethnic  groups , the states  of Sabah  and Sarawak  have  an outstanding  diversity  of culture .
The biggest  ethnic  group  in Sabah , the KadazanDusun, celebrates  the paddy  harvesting  festival  (the Tadau Ka'amatan) in May .
Tadau Ka'amatan is  the most  important  celebration  in the lives  of this ancient  tribe  of Sabah . 
This festival , which spans  the entire  month  of May , is  an offer  of  thanksgiving  to the rice  spirits  (Bambarayon) for a bountiful  harvest .
The highlight  of this harvest  festival  is  a dance  performed  by the high  priestess  (Bobolian) in search  of the rice  spirits , whose presence  is  vital  for a fruitful  harvest .
Much  fun  and excitement  takes_place  and merry_makers  indulge  in dancing , feasting , and drinking  of a potent  wine  called  'tapai,' buffalo  racing  and arm  wrestling .
The festivities  end  with the crowning  of the Harvest  Queen .
Similar  to the Tadau Ka'amatan, Gawai Dayak is  Sarawak  version  of the same  festival .
The Iban tribe , along  with the Orang Ulu and Bidayuh, celebrate  this festival  at the beginning  of June .
It marks  the end  of the rice  harvest  and is  a resting  period  from the toils  of the fields  as_well  as a  thanksgiving  ceremony  to the gods  for a bountiful  harvest .
The festival  also  seeks  the blessings  of the spirits  to ensure  a fruitful  harvest  the following  year .
Huge  banquets  of traditional  food  are prepared  and 'tuak,' a potent  rice wine and a must  at the festivities , is brewed .
Urban  folk  return  to their ancestral  villages  to take_part  in the merry_making  and rituals .
Visitors  are  welcome  to join  in the feasting  and dancing  and watch  the exotic  cultural  festivities .
Occurring  throughout Malaysia  from May  to June , the 'Colors of Malaysia ' is  an entire  month  of culture , craft  and cuisine .
Colours of Malaysia  bring_together  activities , exhibitions  and events  that  showcase  the best  of Malaysia .
Join_in  the festivities  as the month  kicks_off  with a parade  as well as dance  and music  performances .
Food  festivals  and cultural  exhibitions  are also  held  throughout the country .
The highlight  is  a spectacular  parade  bearing  the theme  'Citrawarna Malaysia,' or 'Colors of Malaysia ,' held  in Kuala_Lumpur .
The month  of June  sees  the colorful  and reverberating  Dragon Boat festival  in the states  of Penang and Malacca.
Dragon Boat is  also  known_as  the Double  Fifth  Festival , as  it takes_place on the fifth  day  of the fifth  moon  of the lunar_calendar  and is deemed  one of the three  most  important  Chinese  festivals .
Dragon Boat  summer  festival  tells  of a favored  Chinese  scholar  named  Chu Yuan who served  the King  of Chu many  centuries  back .
Falling_victim  to his jealous  rivals , he fell_out  of favor  with the king  and unable  to regain  the King  confidence , drowned  himself in a river  in the Hunan_Province .
This unsuccessful  attempt  is  a part  of what the Dragon Boat festival  commemorates  each  year  with the racing  of the Dragon  Boats .
The boats  feature  the head  and tail  of a dragon , a mythological  creature  believed  to rule  the waters .
Once  affixed  to the boats , a Taoist  priest  performs  rituals  accompanied by the burning  of incense  and firecrackers  to bring  the boats  to 'life .'
As an offering  to the dead  scholar , villagers  in the early  days  made  offerings  of rice  stuffed  in bamboo  sections  and threw  them into the rivers .
This custom  has evolved  to the_present_day_  tradition  where rice  stuffed  with various  delicacies  like vegetables , nuts , beans  and ham  are turned  into dumplings  called  Tzungtzu and eaten  during the festival .
The race  is  a colorful  and joyous  event  greatly  enjoyed  by all and enthusiastic  spectators  cheer  as the race  kicks_off  with the slow  beating  of drums , which increase  steadily  to end  in a frenzied  crescendo  as the boats  speed  across the finish_line .
Gawai Dayak annual  Sarawak  Dayak festival  is celebrated  in early  June  and marks  the end  of the rice  harvesting  season . 
To prepare  for the festival , Dayaks clean  their homes  and the graves  of their ancestors .
On the festival  eve , family  members  attend  a reunion  during which the youngest  member  offers  a plate  of specially  prepared  food  to his parents .
Tuak, or  rice wine , is served  to all and dancing  is  part  of the merrymaking .
Attired  in their finest , the Dayaks offer  sacrifices  of livestock  in_return  for  a good  harvest .
Other  events  that take_place  are  
war_dances , cockfights  and blowpipe  contests .
Shop  until you drop  at the  Mega Sale  Carnival !  
This extravaganza  is held  once  a year  and offers  an exciting  range  of merchandise  and a host  of bargains  at shopping_centers  nationwide .
Check_out  the branded  items , fashion  wear , sportswear , leather  products , perfumes , jewelry , ethnic   crafts , collectibles , IT  products , and other  tempting  buys .
If witches  and devils  visit  our realm  on All_Hallows_Eve , their fearsome  counterparts  make  their trips  to this region  during the Hungry Ghost Festival .
If witches  and devils  visit  our realm  on All_Hallows_Eve , their fearsome  counterparts  make  their trips  to this region  during the Hungry  Ghost  Festival .
Each  year , during the 7 th  month  in the Chinese  lunar_calendar , the Chinese  community  in a sense  of reverence  and apprehension  celebrates  this festival .
Join  in the fun  on the eve  of the anniversary  of Malaysia  national  day .
A carnival  like  atmosphere  pervades  on this night  of mesmerizing  dances , dazzling  colorful  fireworks  display  and performances  by local  artists , culminating  in the Merdeka countdown  for the raising  of the Jalur Gemilang (Malaysian  Flag ) at the stroke of midnight  amidst the hearty  shouts  of "merdeka."
Malaysia  national  day  on August  31 st  is celebrated  on a grand  scale  with colorful  parades , stage  shows , and competitions  at major  towns  throughout the country .
