All  rates  listed  in this website  are published  rates , furnished  by the respective  hotels .
 :2 : As most  hotels  have  promotional  rates  available  from_time_to_time , we recommend  that you check  directly  with the hotel  before making  any  reservations .
 :3 : We strongly  advise  you to make  advance  reservations  to avoid  disappointment .
 :4 : Most  major  credit_cards  are accepted  and you may be required  to leave  a credit_card  imprint  or number  upon checkin .
 :5 : Rates  are quoted  in Singapore_Dollars  and maybe subject  to a 10 % service_charge , 5 % Goods  and Services  Tax  (GST) and 1 %  cess .
 :6 : If you arrive  in Singapore  without prior  hotel  reservations , the SHA counters  at the Singapore  Changi Airport  can help  you with hotel  bookings .
 :7 : Daily  opening  hours  of SHA counters  at Terminal  1   East  Counter   10 :00  hrs  – 23 :30  hrs :  West  Counter    24  hours .
 :8 : You can reach  every  corner  of the island  with Singapore  modern  public  transportation  system .
 :9 : Taxis  are  abundant  and affordable , the bus  network  and Mass_Rapid_Transit  (MRT) rail  system  are  both efficient  and reliable .
 :10 : Detailed  information  on bus_routes ,  MRT  stations  and fares  can be found  in the TransitLink Guide , a copy  of which can be purchased  at bus  interchanges ,  MRT  Stations  and major  bookstores .
 :11 : Another  convenient  way  to travel  to and from Singapore  Changi Airport  is  to take  the MaxiCab, a six  seater  taxi  shuttle  service  operating  daily  from 0600  hrs  to midnight . 
 :12 : The shuttle  service stops  at Concorde Hotel , Singapore , Crown Prince Hotel , Singapore , Excelsior Peninsula Hotel  and Marina Mandarin, Singapore .
 :13 : The shuttle  offers  a flexible  routing  system  between Singapore Changi Airport  and almost  all  hotels  within the city .
 :14 : Bookings  can be made  at the service counters  at the airport  arrival  hall .
 :15 : Although it is  not  a practice  to tip , you may wish  to do  so  for excellent  service , on top of the service_charge  levied .
 :16 : Most  hotels  offer  inroom International  Direct  Dial  (IDD) telephone  services.
 :17 : However , some  hotels  may charge  a minimum  30 cent  successful  call  transaction  surcharge .
 :18 : As there are  different  IDD service providers  in Singapore , rates  and access_codes  are  dependent  on the service provider  used  by the hotel .
 :19 : Generally , local_calls  are charged  at 10  cents  for every  three  minutes .
 :20 : To make  your visit  to Singapore  a truly  memorable  experience , please  contact  your nearest  Singapore  Tourism  Board  (STB) office  for complimentary  brochures  and other  tourist  information .
 :21 : Butterfly  Park  & Insect  Kingdom: With more_than  3 ,000  species  of butterfly  and insect  specimens , it is  one of the world  largest  collections .
 :22 : Butterfly  Park  & Insect  Kingdom: Open   9  am  – 6 .30  p.m.  daily  (last  entry  6  pm ).
 :23 : Butterfly  Park  & Insect  Kingdom: Admission_Fee  Adult  $10  / Child  $6 .
 :24 : Fly , flap , flutter , float … With over 9 ,000  feathered  friends  from 600  species , Jurong Bird  Park  is  one of  Asia Pacific ’s most  impressive  bird  parks .
 :25 : As the sun  sets , a different  world  comes_to_life  in Singapore . 
 :26 : At the Night Safari, you can look  a rhinoceros  in the eye , hear  the howls  of a pack  of striped  hyenas  or watch  giraffes  glide  serenely  across the plain  in the still  of the night .
 :27 : Singapore  Zoo : tired  of having  the usual  breakfast ? 
Then  feast  with an orangutan , the   Oriental smallclawed otter , or even  the reticulated_python !
 :28 :  :28 : Situated  on Sentosa, Underwater World is  a dream  haven  which  showcases  the aweinspiring  beauty  of a whole  different  world  beneath the seas .
 :29 : Asian  readers  of TIME Magazine  have again  voted  Singapore  as their favourite  business  city  announced  on 5  Dec , 2005 .
 :30 : This is  the fifth  year  running  that Singapore  has clinched  the accolade .
 :31 : Singapore  MICE (meetings , incentive  travel , conventions  and exhibitions ) facilities  were also  voted  the best  in Asia  for the second  year  in a row .
 :32 : Singapore  Changi Airport  was ranked  by the magazine  readers  as their favourite  Asian  airport , while Singapore  Airlines  came_out  tops  in the airline  category .
 :33 : Singapore  Airlines  won  recognition  at The World  Travel  Awards , recognised  as the world  most  prestigious  travel  industry  award , held  on 13  November , 2005 . 
Award  winners  were based  solely  on the result  of a worldwide  poll  of 156 ,000  travel  industry  professionals  in more_than  140  countries .
 :34 :  :34 : Voting  ran  from May  through September , 2005 , with a recordbreaking  number  of more_than  two  million  ballots  cast   online .
 :35 : Other  awards  won  include : Asia  Leading  First_Class  Airline : Singapore  Airlines .
 :36 : Singapore  Leading  Hotel : Raffles Hotel : Singapore  Leading  Spa  Resort : The Sentosa Resort  & Spa .
 :37 : It was announced  in Aug , 2005 , that Singapore  was ranked  5 th  in the top  ten  international  meeting  city  in 2004  by the Union of International Associations.
 :38 : Accolades  won  by Singapore  in the conventions  industry  include  Top  Convention  city  in Asia  and the Third  Top  Convention  City  in the World  by the International Congress and Convention Association in May  2005 .
 :39 : Singapore  was  the only  country  to receive  two  Royal  Institute  of British  Architects  (RIBA) Worldwide  Awards  for its new  arts  venue , the Esplanade  Theatres on the Bay , and the 56 apartment  Lincoln Modern which features  split level  accommodation .
 :40 : The Awards , presented  on 17 th  June , 2005 , recognised  high  architectural  standards  and their contribution  to the local  environment .
 :41 : The Esplanade's acclaimed  acoustic  system  has impressed  many  international  artistes  and audiences .
 :42 : Singapore  won  several  awards  in the Quorum Awards  2004  announced  in April , 2005 , by the Quorum Magazine , a bimonthly  magazine   showcasing  the best  of conference , meeting , exhibitions  and incentive  opportunities  for the MICE industry .
 :43 : Based  on a poll  of over 900  readers , the Quorum Awards  have been running  for 10  years .
 :44 : Read  by buyers  of meetings  and events , corporate  associations , government  bodies  and those involved  in the planning  of business  events , the Quorum Magazine  has  a distribution  of 11 ,586  per issue , of which 1 ,900  copies  are distributed  to Asia , Middle_East , New_Zealand  and the South_Pacific .
 :45 : Singapore  has been voted  the Best  Business  City  in the World  for the fifth  year  running by readers  of the Business  Traveller   AsiaPacific  magazine .
 :46 : Singapore  pipped  Hong_Kong  and London  to the top  spot in the Best  Business  City  category  in the annual  poll  of the magazine  subscribers , comprising  frequent  travellers  based  mostly  in the  AsiaPacific  region .
 :47 : Singapore  took  the top  spot as the most  affordable  tourist  shopping  destination  in  Asia Pacific  according  to the results  from a comparative  study  by Euromonitor International on retail  pricing  in eight  leading  shopping  destinations  in the  Asia Pacific  region .
 :48 : For those who love  to travel  and cook , pick_up  a culinary  tip  or two  at some of the culinary  academies  in Singapore .
 :49 : Whether it is  local , Asian , Middle_Eastern  or European  cuisine , there's something  for everyone, and we are  sure  this will spice_up  your travel  adventure  in Singapore .
 :50 : Shermay's Cooking  School  is  where cookbook  author , Shermay, teaches  cooking  in her own  demonstration  kitchen .
 :51 :  Although the main  focus  of her school  is  to teach  Nonya cuisine  based  on her grandmother  traditional  recipes , other  classes  such as French  cuisine , homestyle  Chinese  and desserts  are also  taught .
 :53 : Classrooms  are designed  to make  cooking  easy  and fun  for novice  as well as advanced  chefs , so students  of any  culinary  ability  are  welcome .
 :54 : AtSunrice is  a culinary  centre  dedicated  to promoting   PanAsian  cuisine , culinary  skills  and craft ware .
 :55 : Offering  cooking  demonstration  and tasting  classes  to actual  handson  cooking  classes , AtSunrice  showcases  the richness  of Asian  cuisine  through handson  education , exposure  and enjoyment .
 :56 : Situated  at Fort  Canning Park , the academy  offers  a leisurely  and fun  environment  for experiential  learning  for tourists , business  travellers , culinary  and hospitality  college  students  and  locals  alike .
 :57 :  Pick  from a variety  of short  courses  such as "quick  cooking  for dinner  parties ", "Asian  cooking  class " and "survival  cooking  for teenagers  and children ".
 :58 : Atsunrice is  located  at Fort  Canning Centre , Fort  Canning Park .
 :59 : Besides being poised  to make  its culinary  stand as a fine  dining  bistro , the Coriander Leaf strives  to establish  itself as a centre  for different  food related  activities , namely  a culinary  school .
 :60 : Coriander Leaf emphasises  home  cooking .
 :61 : The half day  culinary  courses  in a studio  setting  highlight  the best  in South  Asian , SouthEast  Asian , Middle_Eastern  and fusion  cooking .
 :62 : Coriander Leaf Cooking  Studio  is  located  at 3 A Merchant Court, 02 12  River Valley Road , Clarke Quay.
 :63 : Nestled  amid the lush  greenery  of Wessex Estate  off Portsdown Road , Palate Sensations aims  to offer  unique  and allencompassing  holistic  classes  and workshops  that are  not  just  cuisine based .
 :64 : Palate Sensations hopes  to offer  students  more_than  just  culinary  knowledge  and skill  through its classes  and workshops .
 :65 : Palate Sensations’ extensive  and different  classes  are   indepth , educational  but fun , simple  and fuss free  as_well .
 :66 : Classes   run the gamut  of Traditional  Chinese  Medicine  (TCM) Anti Aging  Workshop  which imparts  the knowledge  of cooking  with Chinese  herbs , The Art  of Chinese  Tea  Making , to Yoga  Health_Foods , Spa  Cuisine , wine  appreciation  workshops  and cuisine based  classes  with a  twist , such as Indian  Finger_Foods  and Lazy  Sunday  Brunch  cooking .
 :68 : Palate Sensations is  located  at 1  Westbourne Road , 03 05  (entrance  via Whitchurch Road , off Portsdown Road  and opposite Col Bar ) 
 :69 : More_than  a cooking  school , the prestigious  Raffles Culinary  Academy  also  conducts  lifestyle  classes  covering  a range  of topics  such as wines  and etiquette , how to plan  a party , home  dining , as well as lessons  on oyster  and foie_gras  appreciation .
 :70 : The classes  are  introductory  and recreational  in nature , each lasting  two  to four  hours .
 :71 : Raffles Culinary  Academy  is  located  at Raffles Hotel , 1  Beach Road .
 :72 : If you are looking_for  cooking  classes  in the comfort  of a Singapore  home , Cookery Magic is  your choice .
 :73 : Cookery Magic offers  a wide  variety  of classes  in Malay , Indian , Mediterranean ,  Vegetarian  and baking  amongst many  others.
 :74 : Located  at one of the crossroads  of the world , Singapore  strategic  position  has helped  it grow  into a major  centre  for trade , communications  and tourism .
 :75 : Singapore  geographical  location  is  136 .8  km  north  of the equator , between latitudes  103  degrees 38 '_E  and 104  degrees 06 ' E .
 :76 : Singapore  is linked  to Malaysia  by two  causeway  bridges , and the key  islands  of the Riau archipelago  of Indonesia  are  just  a quick  ferry  trip  away .
 :77 : Thailand  and the Philippines  are  a short  plane  journey  away .
 :78 : Singapore , with an airport  served  by more_than  69  airlines , is  very much the  gateway  to Southeast_Asia .
 :79 : Boat Quay  is  one of the best  spots  in Singapore  for alfresco  dining .
 :80 : Once  Singapore  busiest  port  in the 1960 s, it has been transformed  into a popular  hangout  for  locals , expatriates  and tourists , with chic  cafes ,  highend  restaurants , yuppie  pubs  and  designer  galleries .
 :81 : Situated  in the compound  of an old  girls ’ convent  school , CHIJMES today  is  one of Singapore ’s premier  wine  and dine  destinations .
 :82 : Clarke Quay  is  Singapore  only  riverside  festival  village  combining  dining , shopping  and entertainment .
 :83 : On the 23 ,000  squaremetre  site  are  five  blocks  of building  housing  and  shophouses , restored  to their original  19 th  century  style .
 :84 : Far East Square  is  heaven  for foodies ! The awardwinning  architectural  aesthetics, restaurants , bars  and cafes  attract  both  tourists  and  locals .
 :85 : Just  off Holland Road  and outside the Orchard Road  area , the Dempsey enclave  is  no_longer  only  known  for its antique , teak  furniture  shops  and carpet  dealers .
 :86 : Foreign  motorists  are required  to pay  tolls  and a Vehicle  Entry  Permit  (VEP) charge  at the checkpoints  when they drive  into Singapore .
 :87 : Payments  have to be made  using  an electronic  smart_card  called  the Autopass Card.
 :88 : Autopass Cards are sold  at the primary  clearance/immigration  booths  or VEP/Tolls  office  at Singapore  checkpoints .
 :89 : Motorists  are required  to produce  valid  road  tax  discs  and insurance  certificates  for their cars  when purchasing  the Autopass Card.
 :90 : VEP fees  are charged  at SGD 20  per day , Monday  to Friday  (from 0200  hrs to 1700  hrs).
 :91 : There are  no  VEP charges  on Saturdays , Sundays , all  Singapore  Public_Holidays , and weekdays  from 1700  hrs to 0200  hrs.
 :92 : Car  drivers  must pay  toll  charges  on arrival  and departure  from the Tuas Checkpoint  (SGD 3 .70  per trip ) but only  on departure  at the Woodlands Checkpoint  (SGD 1 .20  per trip ).
 :93 : On_the_other_hand , motorcyclists  are not  charged  at the Woodlands Checkpoint .
 :94 : However , they must pay  SGD 0 .60  when departing  and/or arriving  into Singapore  via the Tuas Checkpoint .
 :95 : All  motorists  driving  into the city  or travelling  on certain  major  roads  and expressways  are required  to pay  an Electronic  Road  Pricing  (ERP) fee  during the ERP operating  hours .
 :96 : ERP is  a scheme  to help  keep  Singapore  roads  congestion free.
 :97 : For foreign  motorists  intending  to pass_through  ERPpriced  roads  during its operational  hours , they can either choose  to install  or rent  an InVehicle Unit  (IU) to pay  ERP fees .
 :98 : For those who do not  wish  to rent  or install  an IU, the option  of paying  a fixed  ERP fee  is  available  whereby, regardless  of the number  of times  one passes  an ERP gantry , SGD 5  will be deducted  per day .
 :99 : This will be paid  together  with the VEP and toll  charges  via the Autopass card when departing  from Singapore .
 :100 : This fixed  fee  scheme  started  on from 1  September , 2003 , onwards  and is  only  applicable  for those who do not  have  an IU installed  in their foreignregistered  cars .
 :101 : As you step  into Little India, be  prepared  for an overpowering  of the senses .
 :102 : First , you will be greeted  by the strong , heady  scent  of spices  and  jasmine  garlands , followed  by the treasure_trove  of silverware , brass  ware , ethnic  jewelry  and colourful  silk  saris , dazzling  to behold  in Little India.
