Built  by the British  in 1939  for the defence  of Singapore , the Johore Battery is  a gun  emplacement  site  consisting  of a labyrinth  of tunnels .
The tunnels  were used  to store  ammunition  to support  three  monster  guns  that could fire  15 inch  shells .
Kranji War Memorial  honours  the men  from Britain , Australia , Canada , Sri_Lanka , India , Malaya , the Netherlands  and  New_Zealand  who gave  their lives  for freedom  in World_War_II .
Go  back  in time  to 1942  when 1 ,400  soldiers  of the Malay Regiment  made  their stand  against 13 ,000  Japanese  soldiers , choosing  death  over dishonour .
What separates  Ireland  from its neighbours  is  the arresting  beauty  of the land  the turbulent  history  of the island , the broad  smile  that welcomes  your arrival  and the heartfelt  farewell  that signals  your departure .
From bizarre  lunar  landscapes  and the mighty  Atlantic  to labyrinthine  caves  and crystal_clear  waterways , discover  Ireland  breathtaking  beauty .
The Irish  culture  has taken  thousands  of years  to develop , so cherish  every  moment  of your cultural  discovery .
With the history  of Ireland  dating_back  as  far  as 6000  BC , the past  has truly  
 paved the way  for the island  buoyant  present  and future 
Getting  to know  the Irish  is  like finding  a friend  for life , but there are  a few  things  you should know  beforehand .
Lavish  country  houses , sumptuous  castles , modern   boutique  hotels  and warm , welcoming   B&Bs  – wherever you want  to stay , Ireland  has  a spot  to suit .
Charming  and hospitable , Ireland  top  range  of  B&Bs  offers  a unique  place  to stay  in a distinctly  family  oriented  environment .
In addition to a superb  standard  of accommodation , you can feast  on full  Irish  breakfast , while in the cosy  environment  of a private  home .
Another  great  reason  to experience  the  B&B  is  the friendly  welcome  from the owner  as you walk  through the door  – be  sure  to ask  about the best  places  to go  around the area 
After_all , it's their local  knowledge  that will make  your stay  in a  B&B  so  unique .
Experience  Irish  country  life  
up close  and savour  the atmosphere  of a rural   idyll  with a stay  in an Irish  farmhouse .
It’s the perfect  way  to escape  the urban  buzz  and an ideal  retreat  from all  things  hurried .
The kids  will adore  getting  to see , touch  and experience   farm_animals  in all their glory  on a real life working  farm .
So for the perfect  family  vacation , it has to be  a farmhouse  holiday  retreat .
Even  if you're on a budget , you can still  get  top_notch  accommodation  in Ireland .
Both  internationally  affiliated  associations  and private  operators  run  over 200  hostels  all around Ireland  and they are  the perfect  place  to rest  your weary  head  while travelling  on a budget .
Irish  hostels  are  cheap , comfortable  spots  for the  budget  traveller  in 
city_centres  remote  rural  locations .
Facilities  provided  often  include  meals  and activities  in Irish  hostels .
From plush  urban  retreats  to sumptuous  country  hideouts , Ireland  boasts  a diverse  range  of excellent  hotels .
Check_in  some  distinctive  accommodations  and enjoy  top_quality  hospitality  with an Irish  flair .
From North  to South  and from East  to West  and everywhere  in between , you can choose  from ultra_modern  interior  design  to the more  classic  opulence  that has stood  the test  of time .
And you don’t have to stick  to the cities  and suburbs  to be greeted  with that professional  touch , countryside  retreats  provide  the ultimate  allround  package  for their guests .
 So much so , you may never  want  to leave  the hotel  grounds  at_all .
If camping  summons  up images  of sitting  in a damp , dripping  tent  while eating  cold  beans  from a can , you’re in_for  a very  pleasant  surprise .
An excellent  range  of sites  is  at your fingertips  in Ireland  from small , family  run  spots  to larger  ones with the very  latest  facilities  and amenities .
Most are  situated  either within reach  of the larger  cities  or next to the  unspoiled   backdrop  of sweeping  beaches  or lush  green  pastures .
Get  back  to nature , soak_up  some  pure  tranquility  and discover  a slower  side  to life  with a relaxed , unhurried  camping  holiday .
Ireland  comfortable  guesthouses  range  from five  bedroom  family  houses  in stunning  rural  locations  to elegant  Georgian  manors  to larger , professionally  serviced  modern  spots .
The informal  atmosphere  and personal  attention  will make  you feel  right   at home , despite the rather  opulent  surroundings  you may find  yourself in.
Enjoy  the freedom  to eat  at your leisure , sleep  all_day_long  (if you really  want  to) and stay_up  all  night  by the crackling  fireside  with the privacy  that can only  come_with  self  catering  accommodation .
Properties  are  generally  available  on a weekly  basis  and provide  facilities  for you to cater  for yourself.
By going_with  a self  catering  option , your freedom  is  guaranteed  whether you want  to lounge_around  in a city_center  penthouse , or commune  with nature  in an elegant  lodge  on a private  island .
Renting  a car  in Ireland  gives  you a major  flexibility  and allows  you to get_to  those faraway  places , which otherwise  you might not  be  able  to  see .
You really  need  to have  a car  with you  to make the most of  both  these places  – unless of course, you’re feeling  energetic  enough  to do  them by bike .
For information  on Touring  routes  in Ireland , Ireland  Route  Maps , driving  laws  and much  more  click on Tourism Ireland Car Touring  your online  dynamic brochure. 
Car  Rental  is  available  all_over  Ireland  and can be  a really  time  effective  option , especially  if you are only  going  for a few  days  as you can pick_up  a rental  car  at any  Irish  airport .
A wonderful  benefit  of traveling  by car   around Ireland  is  getting off the beaten  track  and discovering  a deserted  beach , a remote  country  pub , a staggering  cliff  face  or even  just  enjoying  the winding  country  roads , which cut_through  spectacular  scenery  and are  frequently  dotted  with sheep . 
So take_care ! 
If you want  to get_away  from it all , you can take  to the hills  or  delve  into a wooded  glen  – all  at your own  pace .
County  Cork , the most  southerly  tip  of Ireland , is  a popular  service_station  
not_only  for seals , but for migratory  birds , whales , sharks  and dolphins .
West  Cork is  now  regarded  as one of the_best  places  for whale  watching  in Europe .
The capital  of the Republic , Dublin  is  one of Europe  coolest  capital  cities .
Dublin  pulsates  with energy  thanks  to its excellent   restaurants , chic  boutiques , legendary  pubs , beautiful  art_galleries , verdant  urban  parks , elegant  architecture  fascinating  and turbulent  history , as well as its unique  scenic  location  to search  into or travel  in for the purpose  of discovery , perched  at the edge  of the Irish_Sea .
Affectionately  known_as  the "People  Republic  of  Cork ", Ireland  southern   gem  enjoys  a vastly  different  flavour  to Dublin . 
Cork  is  a free  spirited  spot  with a rich  cultural  heritage , reflected  in its position  as the 2005  European  Capital  of Culture .
With a top    gourmet  reputation , excellent   shops , fabulous  food  markets  and chic  bars , the city  is  a winner  for a city  break .
You just  have to take  a trip  to wonderful   Londonderry and enjoy  the unique  atmosphere  of the only  completely  walled  city  in the UK . 
From the awardwinning  Tower Museum  to the excellent   restaurants , lively  pubs ,  great  shops  and  scenic  views  across the River  Foyle,  Londonderry is  a fabulous  city  break  destination .
Belfast  is  legendary  for its excellent  nightlife  – this is  one  city  that knows  how to have  a good_time .
Beyond the pubs , bars  and nightclubs , Belfast  is  also  one of Europe  most  exciting  city  break  destinations  with critically  acclaimed   restaurants , smart   boutique  hotels  and top   shopping .
If you’re planning  a break , there’s no  better  time  than now  to Celebrate  Belfast  2006 .
Galway  City  is  not_only  one of the prettiest  cities  in Ireland , it’s also  one of the most  social .
With a laidback   boho  vibe , and an utterly  unique  atmosphere , this urban  beauty  in the west  of Ireland  wins  out with its combination  of wonderful  pubs , fabulous  scenery , excellent  festivals  and fabulous  seafood  restaurants .
If you like  art  and  culture , you’ll love  Limerick  as well as the city   atmospheric  medieval  quarter , the wonderful  King John Castle  and the Limerick Museum .
Limerick  is  also  famous  for the excellent  Hunt Museum , home  to  Ireland  largest  private  collection  of art  and antiquities .
With a medieval  flavour , a world  renowned  comedy  festival  and seriously  good  pubs ,  Kilkenny City  is  also  definitely  worth  the trip .
While the ancient  Viking city  of  Waterford  continues  to wow  the world  over with its incredible  crystal , Light Opera  Festival  and delightful  places  to eat , drink  and be  merry .
Ireland  is  a hugely  popular  film  location  spot .
Some of the big  films  that have  used  countryside , beaches  and cities  are  The Count of Monte Cristo,Saving Private Ryan, King Arthur and Braveheart.
Ireland  has  a mild , temperate  climate ; summer  temperatures  generally  range  from 60  ºF / 15  ºC  to 70  ºF / 20  ºC . 
Ireland  temperature  in Spring  and fall  are  generally  50  ºF / 10  ºC.  
In Ireland  Winter  is  between  40  ºF / 5  ºC  and 46  ºF / 8 ºC . 
Snow  is  rare , but rain  can occur  at any  time  of the year .
The island  of Ireland  widely  recognises  concessions .
Men  and women  over the age  of 65  are recognised  as being  senior_citizens  or old_age  pensioners  and enjoy  a variety  of discounts  and privileges .
Ireland  also  very  student  friendly  with many  attractions  offering  a reduced  student  rate /admission_charge  on the presentation  of a valid  student  ID  card  . 
Ireland  likes  to think  of itself as a rather  cultural  spot , and with good  reason , too .
With a lively  theatre  scene  elegant  historic  houses  and gardens , a rich  literary  history , wonderful  galleries  and museums .
Ireland  writers  past  and present  are  renowned  all_over  the world  and the country  literary  culture  can be  felt  everywhere  from pubs  to remote  rural  locations  that inspired  some of the greats .
The Bloomsday Festival  (celebrating  the Joycean tome ) and the Listowel Writers  Week  are  just  two of the top  literary  events  around the country .
There are  so  many  incredible  museums  dotted  around the country  celebrating  everything from Carrickmacross Lace  to Ireland  saints  and scholars .
The Ulster  American  Folk  Park  in County   Tyrone is  a fascinating  place  to visit , telling  the story  of emigration  from Ulster  to America  in the 18 th  and 19 th  Centuries .
Other  places  not  to be  missed  include  the exceptional  Hunt Museum  in Limerick  and the National Museum  of Ireland , with three  sites  in  Dublin , and one  in County   Mayo.
As you’ll notice  as  soon  as you hit  Irish  shores , traditional  Irish  culture  is  alive  and well  throughout the island .
From the Gaeltacht (Irishspeaking ) areas  and the Ulster /Scots  language  of Ullans, to traditional  Irish  music  and dance  and the ancient  art  of story  telling , Ireland  cultural  traditions  are  unique , fascinating  and not  to be missed .
Dublin  enjoys  an extraordinarily  lively  theatre  scene  with excellent  productions  at theatres  like the Abbey and the Gate, the Olympia  and the Gaiety, as well as a raft  of shows  at acclaimed  spots  including  Andrew's Lane Theatre , the Project Arts  Centre , the Helix and the Civic Theatre . 
Around the country , things  are  just  as  dynamic  with places  like the Lyric Theatre  in Belfast , the Everyman Palace Theatre  and the Triskel Arts  Centre  in Cork , and the Druid Theatre  Company  in Galway .
There are  countless  wonderful  art_galleries  dotted  throughout Ireland  with a wide  variety  of exhibitions  from innovative , modern  installations  to traditional  oil_painting .
Try  the Irish  Museum  of Modern  Art , the Hugh Lane Gallery  and the National Gallery  of Ireland  in  Dublin , the  Limerick City Gallery  of Art , Belfast Exposed,  Northern_Ireland  only  dedicated  photography  gallery , and the Model Art  and Niland Gallery  in  Sligo.
Ireland  is  famous  for its elegant  historic  country  houses  scattered  across the country  with grand  interiors  and magnificent  gardens .
Make_sure  you take time out to explore  the beautiful  house  and gardens  at Mount  Stewart in  County  Down, Russborough House  in County   Wicklow, Anne's Grove  Gardens  in County   Cork  and the beautiful  Japanese Gardens  at the National  Stud in County   Kildare.
One of the 19 th century  greatest  writers , Anthony_Trollope , was  Postmaster  at Drumsna, County  Leitrim. 
As well as using  his experiences  in the postal  service  in Ireland  in many  of his novels ,
Trollope  also  became  famous  for a rather  non literary  achievement  – he invented  the post_box .
The Irish  culture  has taken  thousands  of years  to develop , so cherish  every  moment  of your cultural  discovery .
The Irish  love  traditions ,  so much so , in_fact , that the country  is  full  of them – from eating  colcannon (a mixture  of cabbage  and mashed_potatoes ) on Halloween  to wearing  something  green  on St_Patrick's_Day . 
Two of the most  enduring  and internationally  famed  traditions , however, are  Irish  traditional  music , and Irish  dancing .
Traditional  music  can be heard  all over the country  from city_centre  pubs  to rural  festivals .
The bodhrán, which is like a handheld  drum , is  one of the most  popular  instruments  in Irish  music , along with the fiddle  and the tin_whistle .
Irish  dancing  is  fiercely  competitive  and taken  very  seriously  with provincial , national  and international  championships . 
If you want  to have_a_go  yourself, catch  a  céili , where everyone joins in together .
The Irish  are  a nationality  that likes  to laugh : joke  telling  and highbrow   slagging  (teasing ) are  part  of daily  life  in  Ireland . 
So it's no  wonder  that a new  generation  of Irish  comedians  is  gaining  an international  reputation .
If you fancy  catching  a comedy  gig  in Ireland  watch_out  for names  like Dylan Moran, Ed Byrne, Ardal O’Hanlon, Dara O’Briain, Tommy Tiernan and Kevin Gildea. 
For a pure  comedy  fest, check out the Smithwicks Cat Laughs Comedy  Festival  in Kilkenny or the Bulmers Comedy  Festival  in Dublin . 
Irish  history  is  rich  with myths  and legends  from romantic  tales  of warriors  to ancient  saints  to fairy  lore , and the Celtic  myths  are  at the very  core  of Irish  culture . 
Some of Ireland  most  famous  tales  centre  around the Children  of Lir , who were  turned  into swans  by their stepmother ; the great  warrior  Cú Chulainn; and one of the greatest  Celtic  heroes , Finn McCool, who gained  wisdom  when he was  young  by tasting  the Salmon  of Knowledge  and as an adult  triumphed  over giants . 
The pub  lies  at the heart of cultural , social  and musical  life  in Ireland .
In an Irish  pub  you can philosophise  on the meaning  of life , ruminate  on global  politics , listen  to a poetry  reading , tap  your feet  to a traditional  session , feast  on a delicious  bowl  of mussels  or just  enjoy  the quiet  settling  of a pint  of Guinness  in front of a crackling  fire . 
Sit  at the bar  if you fancy  chatting  to the  locals , or hole yourself up in one of the old  snugs  – private  little  spaces , which were  historically  designed  just  for the ladies .
It's always  a good  idea  to brush_up  on some  Irish  pub  etiquette , too .
