Manaus is definitely  worth  the visit , boasting  of delightful  restaurants , an incredible  theatre , and a relatively  exciting  nightlife .
Access  to the forest  is also  feasible  from Bélem, the capital  city  of the state  of Pará.
In_fact , in the recent  past  Belém has made exceptional  strides  in improving  their capacity  for tourism .
Belem is also  conveniently  located  more  proximate  to the Northeast  of Brazil .
The Amazon  Clipper  Cruise  offers  several  short , simple  and affordable    packages   to explore  the region  by boat .
Ecotour Expeditions  operates  the Motor Yacht Tucano, which provides  the option  of privately  chartered  trips , is more  lavish , and offers  longer  itineraries .
Brazil Adventure International (a São Paulo based  tour  operator ) offers  hiking  and trekking  tours  through the Atlantic  Rainforest .
Numerous  other  local  companies  are also  available  to take  you on similar  adventures  through the region .
Entrance  to the Amazon  via Alta Floresta, Mato Grosso state , is another  option  and flights  are available  from Cuiabá.
If you are in the Pantanal, the closest  entrance  to the Amazon  is through São Jose do Rio Claro.
There are more_than  40  Jungle  Lodges  operating  within the Amazon  Rainforest  to choose  from.
Depending  on your interests , there are two  wonderful  seasons  to make your visit .
From December  through March , the water_levels  are lower , and from June  to November , the water_levels  rise .
Simply  avoid  traveling  from April  through June  during the rainy_season , when your adventures  can become  nearly  impossible .
Each  city  in Brazil  celebrates  its own  unique  Carnival .
In many  smaller  cities , people  gather  in social_clubs , in the streets , and at parties  during the Carnival .
Many  cities  hold  parades  and other  community  events  during the annual  Carnival .
Each  Carnival  reflects  the diverse  cultures  of Brazil .
Carnival  in the north  may be completely  different  from Carnival  in the south .
Regardless  of where you decide  to put your endurance  to the test , and see  just  how much  festivity  you can possibly  sustain , you are guaranteed  to have an all  around unforgettable  experience . 
Carnival  roots  go_back  to the ancient  Romans  and Greeks  who celebrated  the rites  of Spring .
In the Middle_Ages , when the Catholic_Church  tried  to suppress  all  pagan  ideas , it failed  when it came to this celebration .
The Church  incorporated  the rite  into its own  calendar  as a period  of thanksgiving .
The nations  of Europe , especially  France , Spain , and Portugal , gave  thanks  by throwing  parties , wearing  masks, and dancing  in the streets .
All  three  colonizing  powers  carried  the tradition  with them to the New_World , but in Brazil  it landed  with a difference .
The Portuguese  had a taste  for abandoned  merriment ; they brought the entrudo, a prank  where merrymakers  throw  water , flour , face_powder , and many  other  things  at each other's faces .
Prior  to 1840 , the streets  of Brazilian  towns    ran riot   during the three day  period  leading  up to Ash_Wednesday  with people  in masks  hurling  stink_bomb s and squirting  each other with flour  and strong smelling  liquids ; even arson  was a form  of entertainment . 
Italian  wife  of a Rio_de_Janeiro  hotel  owner  changed  the carnival  celebration  forever  by sending_out  invitations , hiring  musicians , importing  streamers  and confetti , and giving  a lavish  masked_ball .
In a few  years  the masked_ball  became  the fashion  and the wild  pranks  played  on the streets  disappeared .
Roteiros de Charme, meaning  "charming  routes " in Portuguese , is a private  nonprofit  entity  currently  linking  38  hotels , inns , and ecological  resorts  throughout the nation .
Roteiros de Charme: This association  was formed  in recognition  of their dedication  to environmental  preservation  and social  accountability .
The association  has recently  formed  alliances  with the United_Nations  Environment Program and the Earth Institute.
Each  unique  hotels  aweinspiring  situation  within the natural  environment , honest  charm  and dazzling  personalities  are sure  to win  your heart .
Find  accommodations  according  to various  criteria , specifying  your exact  needs , making your hotel  hunt  as quick  and painless  as possible . 
www.hotelbrazil.com also  provides  hotel  reviews , information  regarding  group  reservations , city  tours  and excursions , transfer  information , and city  guides .
Many  web_sites  offer  temporary  apartment  rentals  in the Copacabana, Ipanema, Leblon, and Leme neighborhoods  of Rio_de_Janeiro .
They have one  of the largest  selections  of properties  found  on the Internet , ranging  from simple  studios  to luxurious  penthouses  and everything in_between .
RIOCONDO  offers  you excellent  options  to stay  in great  apartments , condo  or studios , located  in Rio's best  and safest  areas .
They also  offer  you personalized  services  for business  or vacations , family  or single s, to make your stay  in Rio very  comfortable  and pleasant .
They will provide  references  from people  all_over  the world .   Visit   their homepage  to see  pictures  and prices , and to let  them know  how to assist  you in the best  way  possible .
Brazilian Incentive and Tourism– this is a Brazil  based  travel_agency  that offers  special  tour    packages  , business  travel , eco_tourism    packages   and many  other  services .
Brazilian Incentive and Tourism’s website  contains  8 ,000  pictures , 36  video  clips and 3 ,500  pages  of information .
Some websites  offer  hotels , apartments  for short_term  rent  in Rio_de_Janeiro , houses  for rent , boat  rental , and other  tours  and activities 
Brazilian Trip was created  to appease  the needs  of those who wish  to go to Brazil  to study  Portuguese  and learn  all about the Brazilian  culture .
Brazilian Trip company  offers  cultural  immersion programs  and it was founded  by a group  of experienced  Brazilian  professionals  in the tourism  field .
If you prefer  to work  with an agent , or encounter  any difficulties  in locating  accommodation  to suit  your needs , please  contact  any  of the selected  highly  experienced  Brazil TRAVEL SPECIALISTS for assistance .
HIGH HOOK FISHING TOURS offers  unforgettable  fishing  experiences  in unmatched  surroundings .
The destinations  are located  in the heart  of Brazil  lush  Amazon  rainforest  remotely  situated , in the protected  areas , close  to the great  expanses  of some of the_Amazon_River's  most  beautiful  and abundant  tributaries  
Only the guests  have exclusive  access  to fishing  in Amazon  Rainforest  Area .
The wilderness  settings  are accentuated  by the warm  Brazilian  welcome  you'll receive  on your arrival .
We offer  airconditioned  facilities , serving  the finest  in regional  cuisines , accented  with an array  of exotic  tropical  fruits .
Since getting  there is half the fun , you'll be impressed  and spoiled  by the service  and surroundings  offered  by the Red Carpet service of TAM Brazilian  Airlines , on your flights  to and within Brazil .
Passo Do Lontra Parque Hotel   offers  a range  of accommodation  options , and also  food  service .
Passo Do Lontra Parque Hotel   also  offers  ecological  activities , boats  and motorboats  for sport_fishing , experienced  bilingual  local  guides , fuel  station ,   mini   market , runway  – all  the comfort  and security  your guests  need  and deserve  at leisure  times .
Built  on stilts  due_to  the seasonal  floods  in the region , the facilities  are in keeping with the environment , maintaining  it as naturally  as possible  and thus preserving  the local  fauna  and flora .
Facilities  include  more_than  2 ,000  meters  of elevated  walkways , which allow  for a closer  contact  with nature .
If you prefer  to work  with an agent , or encounter  any difficulties  in locating  accommodation  to suit  your needs , please  contact  any  of the selected  highly  experienced  Brazil  TRAVEL  SPECIALISTS  or the  Brazil Tour Operators Association  (BTOA) for assistance .
In some locations  the opportunity  to learn  or practice  skills  such as underwater  cave  diving  and ice  caving are available  in Brazil .
Nearly  every  region  in Brazil  provides  great  opportunities  for sport_fishing .
Brazil  offers  all  that the fisherman  could wish  for: mighty  rivers  surrounded  by tropical  forests , rapids , lakes , endless  stretches  of beaches , mangroves  and rocky  coastline , not  to mention  the vast  sea 
Specialists  from around the world  are unanimous  in classifying  Brazil  as among the countries  richest  in fish , and therefore  an ideal  destination  for sport_fishing   whether you prefer  fly_fishing , bait_casting , spinning or angling  with different  baits .
We have provided  detailed  information  about the four  dominant  fishing  basins : the Amazon  Basin , the San_Francisco  Basin , the Ocean  Basin  and the Prata River  Basin .
Hopefully  this will help  you decide  where to go  to best  suit  your interests , and indicate  helpful    tips   about how to make your fishing  trip  a huge  success .
The Amazon_River  is both  the world  longest  river , and holds  the greatest  volume  of water .
The most  biodiverse region  on planet  Earth  and two_thirds  of the planet  flora  and fauna  biodiversity  are found in the Amazon  region .
Wide  variety  of rivers  in the region  provide  endless  options   choose  from white_water  rivers , black water rivers , and clear  water  rivers . 
From November  to March  in Brazil , the Corrente do Mar Azul (stream  of the blue  sea ) brings in White_marlins  and Blue_Marlins , Sailfish , Dourados, Wahoos , and Big_Eye  and Yellow_Fin_Tunas ; fish  normally  only  found in the open  sea .
The mangroves  stretch  all  along the ocean  coastline  providing  diverse  options , including  coral_reefs , soaring  cliffs , sandy  beaches , and much , much  more .
In the past  five  years  golf  in Brazil  has experienced  a dramatic  surge  in popularity , with a sevenfold  increase  in registered  players  since the late  nineties .
Exceptional  new  golf_courses  have been built  or are under construction  nationwide , many  along the exquisite  coastline .
Leading  resorts  are taking_advantage  of the new  trend , constructing  golf_courses  on their paradise like  premises .
The Brasilia  Golf  Club  boasts  a delightful  lakeside  18 hole  course designed  by world  renowned  architect  Robert Trent Jones, just  10  minutes  from the city  center .
In 2002  the European  Professional  Golf  Tour  held  two  of its stages  at the Itanhangá and São Paulo Golf  Clubs .
In 2004  the Brazilian  Confederation of Golf  (CBG) will be launching  a tour  called  Get to Know  Brazil  Playing  Golf .
For business  or pleasure , golfing  in Brazil  is a surefire way  to experience  the good  life .
Take a cyberexploration  through 14  extraordinary  ecotourism  destinations  representing  the incredible  diversity  Brazil  has to offer .
Equestrians  delight  in the abundant  options  for riding  destinations  throughout Brazil .
In many  cases , exploring  regions  of Brazil  by horseback  allows  you to travel  to places  impossible  to discover  any  other  way , such as the wild Pantanal.
You can cover  more  territory , while experiencing  the excitement  and joy  of bonding  with such powerful  animals .
Kayaking  can be done within a wide  range  of intensity , depending  on where the sport  is practiced . 
Sea  kayaking  is practiced  along the entire  coastal  zone  of Brazil , presenting  the challenge  and thrill  of conquering  the waves  while soaking_up  the extraordinary  surroundings . River  kayaking  can be performed  lackadaisically  where currents  and rapids  are calm .
The Pantanal was named  by UNESCO  as both  a World  Biosphere  Reserve  and a World  Heritage  of Humanity  site .
Pantanal holds  the rights  to many  claims  of grandeur   Beyond  being the world  largest  wetlands , 
Panatanal also  contains  the greatest  biodiversity  of animal  species  in the Americas , the Transpantaneira Highway  featured  in the Guinness Book of World_Records  as the highway  with the most  bridges  and the longest  openair  zoo  in the world , the biggest  freshwater  boat fishing  festival  worldwide , and the best  place  for wildlife  sightings  in all  of Brazil .
The Pantanal offers  the best  photographic  safari  in the Americas ! Contrary  to popular  belief , here  you will encounter  an abundance  of wildlife  far  surpassing  that found  throughout the entire  Amazon .
This region , and unique  ecosystem , is home  to approximately  670  species  of birds , 242  fish  species , 110  different  mammals  and 50  reptiles , in_addition  to the 1 ,500  plant  species .
The constant  polyrhythmic harmony  of the flora  and fauna  creates  an endless  symphony .
The Pantanal is spread  over 2  Brazilian  states ; Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul.
The capitals  of the two  states , Cuiabá and Campo Grande, as well as the city  of Corumbá are the most  convenient  access  points  to this ecological  paradise .
Pantanal  truly  is paradise  for nature  enthusiasts  of all  walks_of_life . 
Whatever  your passion , be it fishing , boating , birdwatching , wildlife , horseback_riding  or hiking   your greatest  dreams  will be fulfilled  in the Pantanal.
If you are interested  in visiting  three  ecosystems  during your trip  to Brazil , it is recommended  that you travel  to the state  of Mato Grosso.
Here  you will encounter  the Pantanal wetlands , Amazon  Rainforest , and savannah .
The closest  Amazon  destination  accessible  by land  from the Pantanal is São José do Rio Claro.
you are interested  in visiting  the Pantanal, and in_addition  enjoy  trekking , wildlife , spelunking , snorkeling , and cave  diving  we suggest  visiting  Mato Grosso do Sul.
If you could be any  animal  in the kingdom , would you be a bird ? As it does not seem  likely  that humans  will evolve  and grow  wings  during this lifetime , hanggliding  or paragliding provides  the opportunity  to experience  the grandeur  of Brazil  from a bird'seye_view .
There are many  excellent  destinations  for rafting  throughout Brazil .
By raft  you are able  to reach  natural  attractions  impossible  to travel  to by foot , all the while  surrounded  by lush  vegetation , and wildlife .
Whether you are a beginner  or have years  of experience  under your belt, rafting  Brazil  rivers  promises  an exhilarating  experience .
To take_advantage  of the best  Rafting , we suggest  you set_out  for your adventure  from the states  of São Paulo, Santa Catarina, Rio_de_Janeiro , Rio Grande do Sul, Minas Gerais, or Bahia.
