The heritage  of Malabar Coast  is not  just a matter  of isolated  monuments  but of a living  legacy .
 :2 : Centuries  of a thriving  urban  culture  based  on international  maritime  trade  has meant  that the cities  you visit  today  have absorbed  Greek , Arabian , and Roman , Chinese , Portuguese , Dutch  and British  influences . 
 :3 : Centuries  of cultural , religious  and culinary  excellence , they nestle  amidst paddy_fields , rubber  and cashew  plantation , coconut_palms , rainforests  and, of_course , the sea ,
 :4 : Kasaragod, the northern  most  district  of Kerala, is the land  of forgotten  forts  Chandragiri, Hosdurg, Kumbala, Panayal; Bandaduka their wistful  remains  standing  by the sea .
 :5 : The most  scenic  of these forts  is the Bekal Fort , with a history  reaching  back  to the 12 th  century . 
 :6 : South  India ’s legendary  king  Tipu Sultan held  Bekal Fort  before losing  it to the British  East_India_Company . 
 :7 : The grand  fort  presides  over the lovely  Bekal Beach .
 :8 : Kannur is a seat  of North  Malabar’s ancient  folk  art, Theyyam.
 :9 : Theyyam is a ritualistic  amalgam  of worship , dance , music  and mine, played_out  in front of shrines    in honour   of the deities , with the  most  spectacular  headgear  and ornamentation . 
 :10 : At Prassinikadavu Muthappan Temple , Theyyam is performed  every_day .
 :11 : Kannur also  has the impressive  Portuguese  citadel  Fort  St. Angelo, its bulk  silhouetted  against the Arabian_Sea .
 :12 : Fort  St. Angelo was made by the first  Portuguese  victory  of the area  in 1505  and has some cashew_trees , initially  said  to be planted  by the Portuguese .
 :13 : Thalassery was the first  British  settlement  on the Malabar Coast .
 :14 : Standing testimony  is the 17 th  century  seaside  Thellicherry Fort  built  by the British , its ramparts  still  massive  and seemingly  impermeable .
 :15 : Check_out  the unusual  500  year  old  Odathil Palli Mosque  built  on the plan  of a typical  Kerala Hindu  temple ; surprisingly  for a mosque , it has no  minarets  of domes .
 :16 : Five  km  away  at Kadiroor is Suryanarayan Temple , its initial  structure  dating_back  to the 13 th  century .
 :17 : Take time  for a diversion  to Mahe, once  a tiny  French  outpost .
 :18 : Kozhikode (erstwhile  Calicut) was once  the seat  of power  of the Malabar.
 :19 : Kozhikode is the historic  spot  where   Vasco Da Gama   found  India , the land  jof spices , as he landed  on the nearby  Kappad Beach  in 1498 .
 :20 : Kozhikode was then  the capital  of the powerful  Zamorin of Malabar.
 :21 : The city  preserves remnants  from the age  of the Zamorin, such as the Mananchiri tank  and the Jama Atpali and Mucchandipalli mosques .
 :22 : Don’t miss  the old  Arabian  settlement  of Kuttichera; this population  of Kozhikode’s Muslims , called Mappilas or the Moplah community , draws their lineage  from the Arabian  traders  of centuries  ago .
 :23 : Thrissur, the cultural  capital  of Kerala, is dominated  by the Vadakkunath Temple .
 :24 : Vadakkunath Temple  is believed  to have been built  by Sage  Parsuram himself, who is said  to have reclaimed  Kerala from the sea . 
 :25 : Thrissur in the late  18 th  and early  19 th  centuries  was the capital  of the great  King  Sahktan Thampuran, who is credited  with designing  the city  and transforming  it into a cultural  centre . 
 :26 : King  Sahktan Thampuran also  introduced  the famous  festival , Thrissur Pooram.
 :27 : Thrissur Pooram, 30 hour  long  festival  in the summer  is known  for its caparisoned  elephant  processions .
 :28 : The sea , sand  and sun  experience  of the Malabar Coast  is one of its most  alluring  charms ; this coast  boasts  of some of India ’s finest  beaches .
 :29 : Bekal Fort  Beaches  is a spectacular  location  made immensely  atmospheric , thanks  to the brooding  presence  of the Bekal Fort  right  on the sea .
 :30 : The illumination  in the evenings  gives  the beach  an irresistible  air  of glamour .
 :31 : Kozhikode Beach  is replete  with old world charm , with its romantic  lighthouse  and two  century  old  crumbling  piers .
 :32 : Cherai Beach  (45  km  from Ernakulam city ), bordering  Vypeen Island , is alluring  for its thick  coconut  grove s and quaint  Chinese  fishing_nets  on the waterfront .
 :33 : Alappuzha Beach  is a charming  and fun  place  with its 137  year  old  pier  and lighthouse .
 :34 : Varkala Beach  (54  km  from Thiruvananthapram), is a sea  lover ’s favourite  for the enchanting  seclusion  on offer .
 :35 : Stretches  of luminous  sand  and red  cliffs  overlook  the Arabian_Sea , and from the shade  of trees  on the cliff  you can watch  fishing_boats  foraying  deep  into the waters . 
 :36 : Varkala is famous  for mineral  spring  and massages .
 :37 : Varkala beach  is also  a key  Hindu  pilgrimage  centre  with the ancient  Shree Janardhan Swamy Temple .
 :38 : Kovalam Beach  (16  km  south  of Thiruvanthapuram) is perhaps  the most  famous  spot  of the Malabar Coast , considered  by many  as India ’s finest  and something  of an unforgettable  experience .
 :39 : Kovalam consists  of three  successive  small  crescent  beaches  Lighthouses , Hawah and Samudra.
 :40 : Besides the vast , soothing  expanses  of sand , water  and coconut  groves , there are Ayurvedic health  resorts , yoga  and meditation  centers , shopping  outlets , and some equally  therapeutic  nightlife .
 :41 : The ancient  Indian  tradition  of Ayurveda  is a holistic  science  of preventive  and therapeutic  treatments  that detoxify  and cure  not  just  the body  but also  the mind  and soul .
 :42 : Of Ayurveda ’s many  methods , using  herbs , oils  and medicinal  plants , the Kerala Ayurveda  Massage  has gained  international  repute .
 :43 : Spas  and retreats , which range  across all  budgets , offer  longterm  therapy  for specific  diseases  detoxifying  and reviving  routines  and quick  relaxing  massages . 
 :44 : Partake  of the Indian  National  Obsession ! Tourists  and   locals   participate  equally  in this Monsoon  mania .
 :45 : Udaipur the first  city  of the erstwhile  Mewar kingdom  conjures_up  dazzling  vignettes  of Rajasthan’s legendary  regal  splendour  chivalry  and romance , battles  royal  and dizzy  court  intrigues .
 :46 : India Tourism has a system  of approving  travel_agents /tour  operators  who conform  to prescribed  standards  of service  and quality . 
 :47 : A list  of approved  travel_agents /tour  operators  is available  at the local  India Tourism office /State  Government  tourist  office . 
 :48 : For guide  services , hire  a Government  approved  tourist  guide  who always  carries  an identity_card  issued  by India Tourism and Archaeological  Survey  of India .
 :49 : Change  money  only at authorized_foreign_exchange  outlets /banks /hotels  and insist  on proper  receipt .
 :50 : Don’t fall  for tempting  exchange_rates  offered  by unauthorized  people .
 :51 : A large  artificial  lake  created  in the 12 th  century  against a beautiful  backdrop of hilly  terrain .
 :52 : Ana sagar bank  is a beautiful  park , the daulat bagh featuring  a series  of marble  pavilions  built  in 1637  by shan jahan.
 :53 : Situated  on the outskirts  of the city  foy sagar picturesque  lake  is named  after the engineer  responsible  for it construction .
 :54 : Kishangarh is a veritable  house  of art  and is renowned  the world  over for Kishangarh miniature  paintings .
 :55 : The Brahma  temple  is the most  important  in pushkar.
 :56 : In_fact  Brahma  temple  is said  to be one of the few  brahma  temples  in India .
 :57 :  A beautifully  carved  silver  turtle  sits   on the floor  facing  the sanctum_sanctorum  or garbha griha.
 :58 : Peacocks  adorn  the temple  walls , as they are believed  to be the vehicle  of goddess  saraswati  the consort of lord Brahma .
 :59 : Colorfully dressed  village  folk  add  fun  and gaiety  to the event .
 :60 : Puppet_shows  are a big  attraction  too .
 :61 :  One of the sports  involves  the test  of scores  of passengers  even  as they struggle  to keep  themselves from falling  off the camel ’s back .
 :62 : The varaha temple  houses  an image  of Lord Vishnu  in the incarnation  of a wild_boar  who came on earth  to kill  the demon hirnayaksh.
 :63 :  Varaha temple  was constructed  by the chouhan king  anaji (1123 1150 ).
 :64 :  The 12 th  century  temple  is dedicated  to Lord Shiva .
 :65 :  The temple  of Lord Brahma ’s first  wife .
 :66 : Savitri is located  on a hill  behind the brahma  temple  and one has to climb  a long  series  of steps  to reach  the shrine .
 :67 :  The chhatrapati shivaji Terminus  better known_as  Victoria Terminus  is a splendid  example  of Gothic_architecture .
 :68 : Richly  carved  buttresses , domes  turrets , spires  and stained_glass  windows  make it hard  to believe  that this grand  building  is one of the main  stations  of mumbai  and accommodates  almost  half  a million  commuters  daily . 
 :69 :  It has been declared  a world  heritage  site  by UNESCO .
 :70 : This colourful  market  north  of CST, also  known_as  mahatma  phule market , was built  in 1869 .
 :71 : Crawford market  used  to be the city ’s wholesale  produce  market  before it was strategically  moved  to New Bombay.
 :72 : Basreliefs  by Rudyard_Kipling ’s father ; Lockwood kipling, adorn  the Norman Gothic  exterior .
 :73 : Laid  in 1952  on the slopes  if Malabar Hill  the garden \ children ’s park  offers  a panoramic  view  of marine Drive and Chowpatty Beach .
 :74 : Kamala Nehru park  was named  after the wife  of India ’s first  prime_minister , Jawaharlal_Nehru . 
 :75 : The kanheri caves  are situated  in the heart  of the Borivali national_park .
 :76 : Kanheri caves  : Like those at Ajanta, these caves  were built  as Buddhist  monasteries  (viharas) and temples  (chaityas) between the second  and ninth  centuries  BC .
 :77 : The largest  cave  or the Great  Chaitya Cave  is an impressive  colonnaded  temple  with a pagoda .
 :78 : The twin  hills  of Lonavla and Khandala are  in the Sahyadri ranges .
 :79 : The   hill stations   sprawl  over an approximate  area  of 38  sq km and are a popular    getaway  .
 :80 : Carry  your own  bottles  of water  while traveling .
 :81 : While in most  deluxe  and 5  star hotels  the water  is potable , it is advisable  to drink  mineral_water  at all  times .
 :82 : Look_after  your bags  and purses  particularly  in crowded  areas . 
 :83 : Do not  carry  large  amounts  of cash  with you, credit_cards  are accepted in most  stores  these days and are safer  to carry .
 :84 : Change  money  at authorized  money_changers  only .
 :85 : Foreigners  entering  India  on a student , Employment , research  or missionary  visa  , which is valid  for more_than  180  days  , are required  to register  with the Foreigners  officer  under whose Jurisdiction  they propose  to stay .
 :86 :  This should be done  within 14  days  on arrival  in india , irrespective  of their actual  period  of stay .
 :87 : Crystal gallery  : Discover  the whimsical  side  of royal  pursuits  at the Crystal gallery  at the fateh prakesh palace  next  door .
 :88 :  In 1877 , sajjan singh placed  a lavish  order  of Crystal  items  from abroad  for his personal  use .
 :89 : Amongst them thrones , beds  and chairs  and a plethora  of smaller  items  including  dinner_set , decanters  etc.
 :90 : The order included  a bejewelled  carpet  from Birmingham . 
 :91 :  The raja  however died  before the delivery  of the said  items .
 :92 :  Another 2  km  away , amongst the showpieces  at the gallery  of vintage and classic cars  is a Rolls Royce phantom II of 1934  vintage.
 :93 :  The lake  palace , or the jal niwas, may have been converted  into one of the world ’s most  romantic  luxury  hotels  in the 1960 ’s, but not  many  visitors  are aware  of its even  more  romantic  past .
 :94 :  It appears  that this pretty  water  palace  was built  by a defiant  prince  jagat II in 1734  as a pleasure  retreat , away  from his father  maharana sangram singh II (1716 1734 ).
 :95 :  The palace  was set  in the middle  of lake  pichola, across from his father ’s lakeside  residence  ensuring  the access  of it was by boat .
 :96 : If you want  the true  flavour  of the city  follow  the twisty  streets  that disappear  into the old  town , east  of the jagdish mandir.
 :97 :  They are a treasure_trove  of surprises  and can be more  fun  exploring  than the city ’s fancier  establishments .
 :98 :  At the crowded  ghanta ghar, slip  into old  shops  that stock  mementoes  of udaipur’s battle  scarred  past .
 :99 :  Traditional  udaipur “garden  of the maids  of honour’ lies  to the north  of town .
 :100 :  Its lotus pool  and leafy  environs  are popular  with residents .
 :101 : s
